-1
Qatari leader: Gaza ceasefire is at 'critical moment'
Israeli soldiers kill 2 Palestinians as Doha hosts truce conference
ASSOCIATED PRESS 14 hrs ago  0
Facebook
Twitter
Bluesky
Email
PrintCopy article link
Save
DOHA, Qatar — Qatar's prime minister said Saturday the Gaza ceasefire reached a "critical moment" as its first phase winds down, with the remains of one Israeli hostage still to be handed over by militants.

Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani told a conference in the Qatari capital that international mediators, led by the U.S., are working "to force the way forward" to the second phase to cement the deal.

He added: "A ceasefire cannot be completed unless there is a full withdrawal of Israeli forces, there is stability back in Gaza, people can go in and out, which is not the case today."

While the ceasefire halted the heavy fighting of the two-year war, Gaza health officials say more than 360 Palestinians were killed by Israeli fire since the truce took effect Oct. 10.

People are also reading…
Police ID man killed in Greensboro shooting
Update: Man shot, killed in parking lot on Battleground Avenue in Greensboro
K&W closes all cafeterias effective immediately on Monday, including Winston, Greensboro locations
Final: Grimsley wins over Weddington in 7A West football regional final
Two Palestinians were killed in an Israeli airstrike northwest of Gaza City, Shifa Hospital said. Israel's army said it wasn't aware of an airstrike in that location but said its soldiers killed three militants Saturday who crossed the "yellow line" into an Israeli-controlled northern part of Gaza and "posed an immediate threat."

The truce's next phase will include the deployment of an international security force in Gaza, formation of a new technocratic government for the territory, disarmament of Hamas and an eventual withdrawal of Israeli forces.

Arab and Western officials said on Friday that an international body overseeing the ceasefire, to be led by U.S. President Donald Trump, is expected to be appointed by the end of the year.