0

Gaza ceasefire: Mediators Qatar and Egypt call for next step
Kieran Burke with Reuters, AFP
12/06/2025December 6, 2025
The guarantors of the Gaza truce said that it was currently incomplete without a withdrawal of Israeli forces. Fighting has largely come to a halt, but Gaza authorities report over 360 deaths since the ceasefire began.

https://p.dw.com/p/54tBE
Palestinians go about their daily lives at night in tents set up atop the rubble of destroyed buildings in the Sheikh Radwan neighborhood of central Gaza City on Dec 5, 2025
Despite the fighting largely coming to a halt amid the ceasefire, Gaza remains almost entirely destroyed and its population still in dire need of assistanceImage: Omar Ashtawy/APA Images/ZUMA/picture alliance
Mediators in the Israel-Hamas war in Gaza are pushing for the next step to be taken in the three-phase ceasefire agreement.

It comes amid talks on the next stages of the US-backed plan to end the two-year war in the Palestinian territory, triggered by the Hamas-led terror attack in southern Israel on October 7, 2023.


What Qatar and Egypt have said
"We are at a critical moment. It's not yet there. So what we have just done is a pause," Qatari Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani said on Saturday at the Doha Forum, an annual diplomatic conference.

"We cannot consider it yet a ceasefire. A ceasefire cannot be completed unless there is a full withdrawal of the Israeli forces — [until] there is stability back in Gaza, people can go in and out — which is not the case today," al-Thani said.

Phase one has seen Israeli forces deployed in northern Gaza withdraw behind a so-called yellow line. It has also entailed the release of Israeli hostages.

Under the second phase of the deal — which has not yet begun — Israeli forces are to withdraw from positions in the Palestinian territory, an interim authority is to take over governance, and an international stabilization force is to be deployed.

"We need to deploy this force as soon as possible on the ground because one party, which is Israel, is every day violating the ceasefire," Egypt's Foreign Minister Badr Abdelatty said at the Doha Forum.

Egypt 'fully committed' to make Trump peace plan a success

17:58
Muslim and Arab nations have been hesitant to join a stabilization force. NATO member Turkey, which is also a guarantor of the truce, has expressed an interest in joining the force.

Turkey's Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan told the forum on Saturday that Hamas' disarmament, another condition of the truce, should not be the main priority in the time being.

Where things stand 
Hamas has returned all 20 living hostages that remained in the territory along with 27 bodies in exchange for around 2,000 Palestinian detainees and convicted prisoners. One more body has yet to be returned.

On Thursday, an Israeli delegation held talks in Cairo on the return of the last hostage held in Gaza, which would complete the initial part of US President Donald Trump's plan.

Both Israel and Hamas have accused one another of ceasefire violations since phase one of the truce began on 10 October.

The ceasefire has largely ended the two-year war, but Israel has continued attacks on Gaza, often saying it is targetting Hamas infrastructure.

Health authorities in the Hamas-run Gaza say that over 360 Palestinians have died by Israeli fire in the enclave since the ceasefire came into effect in October. Three Israeli soldiers have also died during that time.

Meanwhile, The Times of Israel reported that a US official had told the publication that Washington was looking to announce a move to the second phase in the coming weeks.

Gaza faces harshest winter since Israel-Hamas conflict began
