-1
More heavy rain slows Sri Lanka’s recovery after deadly cyclone
President Dissanayake has called ongoing rescue and recovery efforts the most difficult in the nation’s history.

FILE - People wade through floodwaters in Colombo, Sri Lanka, Nov. 29, 2025. (AP Photo/Eranga Jayawardena, File)
People wade through floodwaters in Colombo, Sri Lanka, on November 29, 2025 [Eranga Jayawardena/AP]
By News Agencies

Published On 5 Dec 2025
5 Dec 2025
Click here to share on social media
Share

Save

Intense rainfall in Sri Lanka has complicated recovery efforts in the wake of a powerful cyclone last week that killed hundreds and left tens of thousands displaced, according to officials.

More than 130mm (5.1 inches) of rain poured down in southern Sri Lanka over 15 hours on Thursday, said local authorities, with more heavy downpours expected across southern and southwestern areas on Friday.

Recommended Stories
list of 3 items
list 1 of 3Sri Lanka airlifts aid to communities devastated by huge floods
list 2 of 3At least 1,250 people dead: What caused the devastating Asia floods?
list 3 of 3Indonesia’s flood victims pick up pieces as homes, livelihoods swept away
end of list
The continuing deluge has made cleanup and reconstruction operations difficult after Cyclone Ditwah – triggering the worst floods in a decade – left the island on Sunday.

The cyclone killed at least 607 people, damaged more than 50,000 homes and pushed 170,000 people into relief centres, according to the country’s Disaster Management Centre (DMC) and local officials. There are 214 people still missing.

President Anura Kumara Dissanayake has called the natural disaster the most challenging the island has ever faced. “We also recognise that what we are undertaking is the most difficult rescue operation in our nation’s history,” he said in an address to the nation.

The disaster is part of a larger spate of catastrophic regional floods and landslides last week that also hit Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia, killing a combined 1,500 people. As in Sri Lanka, numerous villages in Indonesia remain buried under mud and debris.


Play Video
0:58
Now Playing
00:58
Indonesian villages flattened by catastrophic floods
Next
01:12
Zelensky to meet Starmer, Macron and Merz to discuss US-led Ukraine peace talks
02:25
Germany’s Merz meets Netanyahu under shadow of Israel’s war on Gaza
12:15
Coup attempt in Benin quelled by loyal armed forces, interior minister says
08:31
France leads global push for Palestinian state amid rising pressure, says Macron’s adviser

‘What are we going to do?’
In Sri Lanka, residents evacuated from the landslide-prone central hills have been told not to return immediately to their homes, even if they were unaffected by the deluge, as the mountainsides remained unstable.

Advertisement

AD
“I have lost my house, and my crop … What are we going to do?” Prasanna Shantha Kumara, staying in a relief centre with his family, told the Reuters news agency. “How can we live like this? We need help.”

Residents in hard-hit areas have castigated the government for not being better prepared for the deluge and its aftermath.


Play Video
2:58

The official in charge of the recovery, Prabath Chandrakeerthi, commissioner-general of essential services, said authorities were paying 25,000 rupees ($81) to clean a home, with costs of reconstruction as much as $6-7bn.

Get instant alerts and updates based on your interests. Be the first to know when big stories happen.
Yes, keep me updated
A further 2.5 million rupees ($8,100) is being paid to begin rebuilding destroyed homes.

Chandrakeerthi’s office said nearly three-quarters of the electricity supply across the country had been restored, but some parts of the worst-affected Central Province were still without power and telephones.