1
Sri Lanka issues fresh landslide warnings as death toll surpasses 600
 Get insights on Asia's fast-moving developments

Uprooted trees lie along damaged buildings following a landslide in the aftermath of Cyclone Ditwah in Gampola town, in Kandy district on Dec 4, 2025. 
Sri Lanka’s military said it had deployed thousands of troops in flood-hit areas to assist with the clean-up.

PHOTO: AFP

Follow topic:

Sri Lanka
Published Dec 05, 2025, 09:45 PM

Updated Dec 05, 2025, 10:59 PM


COLOMBO – Heavy rains triggered fresh landslide warnings in Sri Lanka’s worst-affected central hills on Dec 5, as the death toll from last week’s Cyclone Ditwah passed 600.

The National Building Research Organisation, which monitors the stability of mountain slopes, said heavy rainfall within 24 hours could further saturate the hills and make them unstable.

“Since rainfall within the past 24 hours has exceeded 150mm, if the rains continue, evacuate to a safe location to avoid the risk of landslides,” the organisation said in a statement.

The latest deluge was brought on by the onset of the north-east monsoon, though some of the earlier flooding that began last week has started to subside.

The Disaster Management Centre said on Dec 5 that 607 people were confirmed dead, with 214 still missing.

The number of people in state-run refugee camps has dropped to 170,000 from a peak of 225,000, as flood waters receded in and around the capital Colombo.

Record rainfall had triggered the floods and deadly landslides, with President Anura Kumara Dissanayake saying it was the most challenging natural disaster to hit the island in its history.

Top stories
Swipe. Select. Stay informed.

The Albatross File: Inside Separation, edited by Susan Sim and published by Straits Times Press and National Archives of Singapore, sheds new light on how Singapore became independent.
Singapore

25 days to a ‘bloodless coup’: The most complete account yet of S’pore’s independence in The Albatross File
It is the first arrest that the national security police have confirmed in relation to the Nov 26 fire.
Asia

Hong Kong man arrested after posting online about deadly fire
Founded in 2022 in Shanghai, ChemLex uses artificial intelligence and machine learning to radically accelerate discovery of synthetic molecules for the pharmaceutical industry.
Business

China’s ChemLex unveils in Singapore an AI-powered drug discovery lab run by robots 
The greater mouse-deer on Pulau Ubin. The mouse-deer population quintupled to 293 individuals per sq km between 2019 and 2024.
Singapore

How a fatal virus sparked Pulau Ubin’s mouse-deer boom
There was no open flame or explosion from the powerbank, said a passenger. 
Singapore

Passengers guided off train at Tanjong Pagar MRT station after power bank emits smoke
Richie Koh poses for photos at the 62nd Golden Horse Awards in Taipei, Taiwan November 22, 2025. REUTERS/Ann Wang
Opinion

Golden Horse: Why regional colts are shining in China-less field
McLaren's Lando Norris celebrates on the podium with the trophy after becoming the 2025 Formula One World Champion.
Sport

‘I did it my way’: Norris says he won the F1 championship by being a fair driver
Handballer Kate Ong describes herself as an "artsy fartsy" girl and needed an output for her creativity.
Sport

SEA Games 2025: Handballer Kate Ong hooked on ‘dopamine rush’ in crafting her crochet items
Residents evacuated from the landslide-prone central hills have already been told not to return immediately to their homes, even if they were unaffected by the slips.

The Dec 5 landslide alert was issued for new areas that were not covered by previous warnings.

In the central town of Gampola, residents worked to clear mud and fix water damage.

“We are getting volunteers from other areas to help with this clean-up,” Muslim cleric Faleeldeen Qadiri told AFP at the Gate Jumma Mosque.

“We have calculated that it takes 10 men a whole day to clean one house,” said a volunteer, who gave his name as Rinas. “No one can do this without help.”

Troops helping with clean-up
Sri Lanka’s military said it had deployed thousands of troops in flood-hit areas to assist with the clean-up.

The top official in charge of the recovery, commissioner-general of essential services Prabath Chandrakeerthi, said the authorities were paying 25,000 Sri Lankan rupees (S$105) per home cleaned, with reconstruction costs estimated at between US$6 billion (S$7.8 billion) and US$7 billion.

A further 2.5 million rupees is being paid to begin rebuilding destroyed homes. More than 52,000 houses had been damaged as at the morning of Dec 5, officials said.

Mr Chandrakeerthi’s office said nearly three-quarters of the electricity supply across the country had been restored, but some parts of the worst-affected Central Province were still without power and telephone services.

While the government has sought generous donations to recover from the massive loss of roads, bridges, homes and industries, the tourism authorities said hotels were back in business.

Nearly 300 tourists who were stranded due to the disaster have been rescued by helicopter, the Tourism Ministry said.

“We need tourism revenues to help rebuild,” Deputy Tourism Minister Ruwan Ranasinghe told reporters in Colombo. AFP