1
Kremlin: Trump’s new defence strategy ‘consistent’ with Russian vision
Updated US policy, announced on Friday, adopts softer tone and urges limited cooperation with Moscow

Our Foreign Staff
07 December 2025 12:35pm GMT
Related Topics
Russia-Ukraine war, Donald Trump, Russia, Ukraine

238

Gift this article free
Donald Trump (right) has often made positive and admiring comments about Vladimir Putin
Donald Trump (right) has often made positive and admiring comments about Vladimir Putin Credit: Kevin Lamarque/Reuters
Russia has welcomed changes to the US National Security Strategy, saying they marked a radical departure from Washington’s previous policy.

“The adjustments we’re seeing, I would say, are largely consistent with our vision,” Dmitry Peskov, the Kremlin spokesman, said in an interview with Rossiya, the state TV station, which aired on Sunday.

“And, perhaps, we can hope that this could be a modest guarantee that we will be able to constructively continue our joint work on finding a peaceful settlement in Ukraine.”

Since Russia’s 2014 annexation of Crimea and its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022, US strategies have designated Moscow as a major threat. 

However, the updated US policy, announced on Friday, adopts a softer tone, urging limited cooperation.


In his comments to the state-run news agency, Mr Peskov said the updated strategy had dropped wording that described Russia as a direct threat and instead called for cooperation with Moscow on strategic stability issues.

“We considered this a positive step,” he said, adding that Moscow would examine the document further before drawing broader conclusions. “We certainly need to look at it more closely and analyse it,” he was quoted as saying.

The new 29-page strategy set out Mr Trump’s foreign policy vision as one of “flexible realism” and said US policy would be driven above all by “what works for America”, according to the document.

Washington would seek a quick resolution to the conflict in Ukraine and aimed to re-establish “strategic stability” with Moscow, while maintaining that Russia’s actions in Ukraine remained a central security concern, the document said.


The strategy was released amid a stalled US peace initiative, in which Washington presented a proposal that endorsed Russia’s main demands in the nearly four-year war.

Mr Trump has often made positive and admiring comments about Vladimir Putin, the Russian president, prompting critics to accuse him of being soft on Moscow even as his administration maintained sanctions over Russia’s actions in Ukraine.

European allies, reliant on US military support to deter Russia, have watched the shift closely and voiced concern that softer US language might weaken efforts to confront Moscow as the war in Ukraine continues.