2
Elon Musk's X hit with $140M fine for 'manipulating users'
European regulators found X violated Digital Services Act transparency rules

Share Article

By Amrita Carroll
07:35 ET, Fri, Dec 5, 2025 Updated: 07:44 ET, Fri, Dec 5, 2025
US-SAUDI ARABIA-POLITICS-TECHNOLOGY-ENERGY

Elon Musk's X has been handed a huge fine by the EU for breaching DSA rulebook (Image: Getty)
On Friday, European Union regulators slapped Elon Musk's social media platform X with a fine of 120 million euros ($140 million) for violating the bloc's digital regulations. These breaches, they said, could leave users vulnerable to scams and manipulation.

The European Commission announced its decision after a two-year investigation into X under the Digital Services Act (DSA) of the 27-nation bloc. The DSA is a comprehensive rulebook that mandates platforms to take greater responsibility for protecting European users and removing harmful or illegal content and products from their sites, under the threat of substantial fines.

The Commission stated it was penalizing X, formerly known as Twitter, due to three separate violations of the DSA's transparency requirements. This decision could provoke President Donald Trump, whose administration has criticized Brussels' digital regulations and pledged to retaliate if American tech companies are penalized.

Elon Musk's X removed millions of posts from site in first transparency report
AI reveals shocking image of Elon Musk 'without hair transplants or weight loss drugs'
FILE - Workers install lighting on an "X" sign atop the company headquarters in downtown San Francisco, July 28, 2023. (AP Photo

Workers install lighting on an "X" sign atop the company headquarters in downtown San Francisco, July 28, 2023. (AP Photo/Noah Berger, File) (Image: Unknown)
The company did not immediately respond to an email request for comment.

Regulators claimed that X's blue checkmarks violated the rules due to their "deceptive design" that could expose users to scams and manipulation.

X also failed to meet the transparency requirements for its ad database, according to regulators.

Platforms operating in the EU must maintain a database of all digital advertisements they've displayed, including information such as who funded them and their target audience, to assist researchers in identifying scams, fraudulent ads and coordinated influence operations.

US-SAUDI ARABIA-POLITICS-TECHNOLOGY-ENERGY

Musk has allies despite coming under fire (Image: Getty)
However, X's database, according to the Commission, is compromised by design flaws and access obstacles such as "excessive delays in processing."

Regulators also stated that X creates "unnecessary barriers" for researchers attempting to access data."Deceiving users with blue checkmarks, obscuring information on ads and shutting out researchers have no place online in the EU.

The DSA protects users," said Henna Virkunnen, the EU's executive vice-president for tech sovereignty, security and democracy, in a prepared statement.

