0
EU hands €120m fine to Elon Musk's X for breaking social media rules
The European Commission highlighted breaches including X's policy of allowing anyone to buy a verified blue checkmark.

Friday 5 December 2025 15:21, UK

Elon Musk and X. Pic: Reuters
Image:
Elon Musk and X. Pic: Reuters
Why you can trust Sky News
Elon Musk's social media platform X, formerly Twitter, has been fined €120m (£105m) by the EU after it found rule breaches had left users vulnerable to scams and manipulation.

The European Commission started investigating X under the Digital Services Act (DSA) two years ago and has now issued its first non-compliance decision against the site.

Sponsored stories
Tirzepatide beats stubborn weight with 2X the speed. Order today.
Tirzepatide beats stubborn weight with 2X the speed. Order today.
Medvi
She Mixed Gelatin With This One Thing — Now Everyone Is Copying It
She Mixed Gelatin With This One Thing — Now Everyone Is Copying It
WELLNESS & NUTRITION JOURNAL
In a decision that could anger the US President Donald Trump the commission censured Elon Musk's platform for three different breaches of DSA transparency requirements.

Elon Musk with U.S. President Donald Trump in the Oval Office.
Pic: Reuters
Image:
Elon Musk with U.S. President Donald Trump in the Oval Office. Pic: Reuters
The Trump administration has previously criticised Brussels' digital regulations, saying that they target US tech companies and had vowed to retaliate.

One of X's breaches highlighted by the EU concerned the "deceptive design practices" of the platform's blue checkmarks, which exposed users to scams and manipulation, regulators said.

Before Mr Musk acquired the site for $44bn (£33bn) in 2022, the checkmarks indicated the accounts of notable users with verified identities.

Under the tech billionaire's changes, however, the badge could be bought by anyone willing to pay $8 (£6) a month.

More on Social Media
iStock file pic 
Next week, one of the world's toughest social media bans will come into force

File pic: iStock
More than 800,000 young children seeing social media content 'designed to hook adults', figures show

Noah Jones and Macy Neyland. Pic: Digital Freedom Project
Teenagers launch legal challenge over Australia's ban on social media for children

Related Topics:
Social Media
2:07

Play Video - The X Effect
How Elon Musk's X is boosting the British right.
The commission said, it was therefore "difficult for users to judge the authenticity of accounts and content they engage with".

X also fell short of transparency requirements for its database of advertisements, regulators said.

Read more:
The X Effect: How Elon Musk is boosting the British right
Elon Musk's $1trn pay package approved by Tesla

In the EU, platforms are required to provide a database of all the digital ads they have carried, with details such as who paid for them and the intended audience.

But the commission said X had created "access barriers" to its database, which lacked "critical information" and imposed "excessive delays in processing, which undermine the purpose of ad repositories".

Elon Musk's profile on X, with the blue checkmark displayed. Pic: AP
Image:
Elon Musk's profile on X, with the blue checkmark displayed. Pic: AP
Follow Sky News on WhatsApp 
Follow Sky News on WhatsApp
Keep up with all the latest news from the UK and around the world by following Sky News

It also found X had failed to meet its DSA obligations to provide researchers with its public data, the commission said.

The EU's executive vice-president for tech sovereignty, security and democracy, Henna Virkkunen, said: "Deceiving users with blue checkmarks, obscuring information on ads and shutting out researchers have no place online in the EU.

"The DSA protects users. The DSA gives researchers the way to uncover potential threats. The DSA restores trust in the online environment.

"With the DSA's first non-compliance decision, we are holding X responsible for undermining users' rights and evading accountability."

Spotify
This content is provided by Spotify, which may be using cookies and other technologies. To show you this content, we need your permission to use cookies. You can use the buttons below to amend your preferences to enable Spotify cookies or to allow those cookies just once. You can change your settings at any time via the Privacy Options.
Enable Cookies
Allow Cookies Once
👉 Tap here to follow Trump100 wherever you get your podcasts👈

X now has 60 working days to inform the commission of how it will bring its blue checkmarks into compliance, and 90 days to address the other two breaches.

The commission says it can impose "periodic penalty payments" on Musk's platform if it fails to comply.