-1
Ukraine-Russia war latest: European leaders agree to ramp up pressure on Putin after meeting Zelensky in No 10
Allies ‘discuss progress’ on using frozen Russian assets to aid Kyiv’s reconstruction programme

Maroosha Muzaffar
,
Alex Croft
,
Jane Dalton
Tuesday 09 December 2025 01:30 GMT
443
Comments
Close
Donald Trump Jr says US President 'may walk away' from Ukraine war
Your support helps us to tell the story
Support Now
From reproductive rights to climate change to Big Tech, The Independent is on the ground when the story is developing. Whether it's investigating the financials of Elon Musk's pro-Trump PAC or producing our latest documentary, 'The A Word', which shines a light on the American women fighting for reproductive rights, we know how important it is to parse out the facts from the messaging.
At such a critical moment in US history, we need reporters on the ground. Your donation allows us to keep sending journalists to speak to both sides of the story.
The Independent is trusted by Americans across the entire political spectrum. And unlike many other quality news outlets, we choose not to lock Americans out of our reporting and analysis with paywalls. We believe quality journalism should be available to everyone, paid for by those who can afford it.
Your support makes all the difference.

Read more
Sir Keir Starmer and European allies have agreed on the need to ramp up economic pressure on Russia’s Vladimir Putin, and have discussed “positive progress” towards using frozen Russian assets to support Ukraine, Downing Street says.

The prime minister hosted Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky, French president Emmanuel Macron and German chancellor Friedrich Merz at No 10 following US president Donald Trump’s “peace plan”, widely criticised as being a wish-list of Russian demands.

Mr Trump accused Mr Zelensky of having failed to read the latest plan, while insisting Mr Putin was fine with it”.

No 10 said the leaders agreed that Europe must stand with Ukraine, strengthening its ability to defend against “relentless attacks that have left thousands without heat or light”.

“They also discussed positive progress made to use immobilised Russian sovereign assets to support Ukraine's reconstruction.”

Sir Keir also convened a call with other European allies, during which they agreed that “we must continue to ramp up support to Ukraine and economic pressure on Putin to bring an end to this barbaric war”, Downing Street said.

Recommended
Starmer to meet Zelensky as Russian bombardment continues
Starmer to meet Zelensky as Russian bombardment continues
Starmer to host Zelensky and EU leaders for peace talks after Russia launches overnight air attacks on Kyiv
Starmer to host Zelensky and EU leaders for peace talks after Russia launches overnight air attacks on Kyiv
UK troops join Nato exercise as Finland prepares for potential Russian invasion
UK troops join Nato exercise as Finland prepares for potential Russian invasion
Europe has promised Ukraine a ‘reassurance force’ when the war ends – but will it enrage Putin?
Europe has promised Ukraine a ‘reassurance force’ when the war ends – but will it enrage Putin?
Key Points
Merz 'skeptical' about certain aspects of US position on peace
Allies agree more pressure on Putin needed
Zelensky arrives in Downing Street for Starmer talks
US and Ukraine remain divided over territory, says Zelensky
Trump: Zelensky isn't ready for a peace deal
Analysis | Starmer’s role as ‘Trump whisperer’ makes him key figure in peace talks
38 minutes ago
Mystery drones near Zelensky's plane to be investigated
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has confirmed that unidentified drones were spotted near his plane to Ireland last week.
"There will be an investigation... There were drones indeed," he told reporters.
Irish local media reported on Thursday that a naval ship had spotted up to five drones operating near the flight path of the presidential plane.