0

Ukraine updates: Zelenskyy meets Starmer, Macron, Merz in UK
Farah Bahgat | Karl Sexton with AFP, Reuters, dpa
Published 22 hours agoPublished 22 hours agolast updated 32 minutes agolast updated 32 minutes ago
The Ukrainian president has held talks in London before heading to Brussels, with US-led peace talks to end Russia's war in Ukraine deadlocked. DW has more.

https://p.dw.com/p/54v66
British Prime Minister Keir Starmer greets Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy at 10 Downing Street, as E3 partners France, Germany and Britain meet in London, Britain, December 8, 2025
Starmer greeted Zelensky outside 10 Downing StreetImage: Hannah McKay/REUTERS
Skip next section What you need to know
What you need to know
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has met in London with the leaders of the UK, France and Germany, to discuss how to respond to the US-backed peace plan
After London, Zelenskyy is heading to Brussels to meet with NATO and EU leaders
US negotiators Steve Witkoff and Donald Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner last week met separately with Russian and Ukrainian teams to discuss Washington's proposal
Zelenskyy says the talks were 'constructive, although not easy'
Despite renewed pressure from the White House, negotiations remain deadlocked 
Below is a roundup of the latest developments on Russia's war in Ukraine on Monday, December 8, 2025:

Skip next section Zelenskyy informs EU and NATO leaders on state of peace talks
32 minutes ago32 minutes ago
Zelenskyy informs EU and NATO leaders on state of peace talks
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has briefed both EU and NATO leaders on the status of talks with the US about a possible peace plan to bring an end to the war with Russia. 

"Our positions have been aligned on all issues. We are acting in a coordinated and constructive manner," he wrote on the social media platform X late on Monday after the meetings. 

The Ukrainian leader met with NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and European Council President Antonio Costa. 

Show additional content?
This content is part of the text you are currently reading. The provider X / Twitter provides this content and may collect your usage data directly when you click “Show content”.
Always show content from X / Twitter.
It followed talks in London with German President Friedrich Merz, French President Emmanuel Macron and British Prime Minister Keir Starmer.

Following that meeting, Zelenskyy once again reiterated that any territorial concessions to Russia, which is a key element of the US plan for ending the war, remain off the board for him.

According to the Ukrainian leader, a revised version of the plan will be sent to Washington by Tuesday.

https://p.dw.com/p/54zMK
Copy link
Skip next section EU leaders underscore Ukraine's sovereignty and long-term security
3 hours ago3 hours ago
EU leaders underscore Ukraine's sovereignty and long-term security
Dmytro Hubenko Editor
In any peace deal with Russia, Ukraine's sovereignty must be respected and its security guaranteed for the long term, stressed European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and European Council President Antonio Costa.

The two EU institution chiefs shared this message on social media after meeting with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg in Brussels.

Show additional content?
This content is part of the text you are currently reading. The provider X / Twitter provides this content and may collect your usage data directly when you click “Show content”.
Always show content from X / Twitter.
"Ukraine's sovereignty must be respected. Ukraine's security must be guaranteed, in the long term, as a first line of defense for our Union," von der Leyen and Costa emphasized in identical posts.

https://p.dw.com/p/54zHT
Copy link
Skip next section 'Positive progress made' on frozen Russian assets — Downing Street
6 hours ago6 hours ago
'Positive progress made' on frozen Russian assets — Downing Street
The tricky subject of how Europe can potentially best use frozen Russian assets to help Ukraine was discussed in the London talks.

Downing Street said there has been "positive progress" in discussions on how to use these assets to help Ukraine's reconstruction.

"They also discussed positive progress made to use immobilised Russian sovereign assets to support Ukraine’s reconstruction," Downing Street said in a statement.

"The leaders all agreed that now is a critical moment and that we must continue to ramp up support to Ukraine and economic pressure on Putin to bring an end to this barbaric war," the statement said, adding that the leaders had agreed "to keep in touch."

https://p.dw.com/p/54z8A
Copy link
Skip next section Zelenskyy says Kyiv has no 'legal right' to cede land to Russia
6 hours ago6 hours ago
Zelenskyy says Kyiv has no 'legal right' to cede land to Russia
Ukriane's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that Kyiv had neither the legal or the moral right to hand over territory to Russia in any deal seeking to end the war.

"Do we envision ceding territories? We have no legal right to do so, under Ukrainian law, our constitution and international law. And we don't have any moral right either," Zelensky said during an online press conference. 

Washington's initial plan involved Ukraine ceding land that Russia has not been able to seize on the battlefield in return for security promises that fall short of Kyiv's aspirations to join NATO.

Zelenskyy also said that Ukraine was short this year of about $800 million (€687 million) in order to buy US weapons with the help of European allies.

Zelenskyy stressed that next year, Ukraine would need $15 billion for the Prioritized Ukraine Requirements List, or PURL program.

https://p.dw.com/p/54z2C
Copy link
Skip next section China should use its influence to bring Moscow to negotiate — Germany's Wadephul
7 hours ago7 hours ago
China should use its influence to bring Moscow to negotiate — Germany's Wadephul
Germany's top diplomat has said China should use its leverage with Russia to get it to negotiate seriously over ending its invasion of Ukraine, accusing Moscow of wanting to "impose maximum demands under the pretext of being willing to talk." 

"If there is one country in the world that has a strong influence on Russia, it is China," Foreign Minister Johann Wadephul said after a meeting with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Beijing.

"We hope, we expect that China will use this influence," he added.

China has insisted throughout the war in Ukraine that it takes a neutral position to the conflict but has faced accusations from the West of backing Russia's aggression, among other things by buying Russian oil.

https://p.dw.com/p/54yR0
Copy link
Skip next section Merz: 'Could be a decisive time for all of us'
7 hours ago7 hours ago
Merz: 'Could be a decisive time for all of us'
German Chancellor Friedrich Merz has said he is skeptical about some elements contained in peace proposals for Ukraine as he joined the Ukrainian, British and French leaders for talks in London.

""We have to talk about it. That's why we are here," he said. "The coming days could be a decisive time for all of us."

British Prime Minister Keir Starmer said in his turn that efforts toward ending the conflict in Ukraine were at a "critical stage, " while stressing the need for "a just and lasting ceasefire."

Many European leaders have criticized previous proposals put forward by the US as favoring maximalist demands from the aggressor in the conflict, Russia.

https://p.dw.com/p/54yKB
Copy link
Skip next section WATCH: Ukrainian military defense gets boost from interceptor drones
7 hours ago7 hours ago
WATCH: Ukrainian military defense gets boost from interceptor drones
Interceptor drones have proved to be a game-changer in Ukraine's defense against Russian attacks.

These low-cost drones have destroyed over 1,000 Russian Shahed and other drones in just four months.

Ukrainian defense gets boost from interceptor drones

04:03
https://p.dw.com/p/54xAp
Copy link
Skip next section Macron says prority is finding 'convergence' on peace talks
7 hours ago7 hours ago
Macron says prority is finding 'convergence' on peace talks
French President Emmanuel Macron says talks in London with Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky were aimed at finding common ground between US, European and Ukrainian allies on a possible peace deal to end Russia's invasion.

"I think the main issue is the convergence between our common positions, Europeans and Ukrainians and the US to finalise these peace negotiations", Macron said.

All parties could then move to a "new phase" in which they would aim to secure "the best possible conditions for Ukraine, for the Europeans and for collective security," he added.

https://p.dw.com/p/54y9B
Copy link
Skip next section Zelenskyy arrives at 10 Downing Street
12 hours ago12 hours ago
Zelenskyy arrives at 10 Downing Street
British Prime Minister Keir Starmer welcomed Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in London on Monday ahead of talks with allies about a deal to end Russia's war in Ukraine. 

Zelenskyy arrived shortly after German Chancellor Friedrich Merz and French President Emmanuel Macron were seen arriving for the meeting.

The four leaders are meeting amid tensions between the US and Europe, with Washington pushing for a deal to end the war without including the EU's conditions.

https://p.dw.com/p/54xcg
Copy link
Skip next section Zelenskyy heading to Brussels for talks with NATO, EU
15 hours ago15 hours ago
Zelenskyy heading to Brussels for talks with NATO, EU
NATO Secretary-General Mark Rutte is hosting talks with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy at his official residence in Brussels, NATO said in a brief statement. 

EU chiefs Antonio Costa and Ursula von der Leyen are also attending the meeting, the statement added. 

Zelenskyy, who's first in London before heading to the Belgian capital, had said that his talks European leaders this week would focus on security, air defense and long-term funding for Ukraine's security.

https://p.dw.com/p/54wnS
Copy link
Skip next section Zelenskyy to receive all documents on peace plan Monday — senior negotiator
18 hours ago18 hours ago
Zelenskyy to receive all documents on peace plan Monday — senior negotiator
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy will on Monday be briefed on recent talks between his team and US officials and receive all documents connected with the peace proposals that were discussed, senior Ukrainian Rustem Umerov said.

In a statement on X, Umerov also said that Kyiv's negotiating team focused at the talks on gaining full information of discussions held in Moscow by US representatives and all drafts of current proposals to end Russia's war on Ukraine.

"Together with all partners, we must do everything possible for a dignified end to this war," he said.

Show additional content?
This content is part of the text you are currently reading. The provider X / Twitter provides this content and may collect your usage data directly when you click “Show content”.
Always show content from X / Twitter.
As noted previously in this blog, US President Donald Trump said on Sunday night that he was "a little bit disappointed" Zelenskyy hadn't yet read the proposal.

https://p.dw.com/p/54vcQ
Copy link
Skip next section Meloni reaffirms Italy's solidarity with Ukraine in call with Zelenskyy
20 hours ago20 hours ago
Meloni reaffirms Italy's solidarity with Ukraine in call with Zelenskyy
Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni at an event in Rome on December 1, 2025Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni at an event in Rome on December 1, 2025
Meloni welcomed Ukraine's willingness to engage in ongoing negotiations and US-led efforts to secure a 'just and lasting peace'Image: Francesco Fotia/AGF/SIPA/picture alliance
Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni pledged further support to President Volodymyr Zelenskyy for Ukraine's defense against Russia's aggression during a phone call ahead of his meeting with other European leaders.

Meloni accused Moscow of a "new series of indiscriminate attacks" against "Ukrainian civilian targets," according to a statement released by her office. She also assured the delivery of additional supplies, including generators.

The phone call served as an assurance, as Meloni will not take part in Monday's meeting. Those in attendance include British Prime Minister Keir Starmer, French President Emmanuel Macron, and German Chancellor Friedrich Merz.

https://p.dw.com/p/54vHm
Copy link
Skip next section UNGA president Baerbock rejects Ukrainian loss of territory in peace deal
22 hours ago22 hours ago
UNGA president Baerbock rejects Ukrainian loss of territory in peace deal
UN General Assembly President Annalena Baerbock has said Ukraine should not have to cede any territory in a peace deal with Russia.

Germany's former foreign minister warned that rewarding Russia's aggression by agreeing to giving up territory would only lead to more war.

"You condemn an act of aggression, you do not reward it. Those who reward aggression will reap more war instead of peace," she said in comments published on Sunday by Germany's Funke media group.

Russia is demanding that Ukraine withdraw from the eastern Donbas region, large parts of which are occupied by Moscow's forces.

Ukraine has refused to accept those terms, despite increasing US pressure to agree to a deal.

Baerbock refused to discuss what role the UN might play in enforcing a potential ceasefire. 

"First, there must be a ceasefire and a peace agreement, then we can discuss how it can be enforced," she said. "But for that, Russia would have to be willing to end the war first."

