2

Russia feeling pressure from latest sanctions, Macron says ahead of Ukraine talks in London
Macron, Starmer, and Merz meet Zelenskyy in London to discuss Ukraine peace place
Necva Tastan Sevinc and Burc Eruygur  |
08.12.2025 - Update : 08.12.2025
Russia feeling pressure from latest sanctions, Macron says ahead of Ukraine talks in London

     
ISTANBUL 

Russia is beginning to feel the impact of Western sanctions, French President Emmanuel Macron said on Monday, arguing that mounting economic pressure is strengthening Ukraine ahead of crucial peace talks in London.

Speaking alongside Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy before the meeting that will also include British Prime Minister Keir Starmer and German Chancellor Friedrich Merz, French President Emmanuel Macron said the sanctions imposed in recent months by the EU and the United States were now significantly affecting Russia’s economy.

“The fact that Ukraine is resisting in this war, and the fact that the Russian economy is starting to suffer, especially after our latest sanctions and the US sanctions, is important,” Macron said.

He added that this pressure created momentum for coordinated diplomatic engagement.

“The main issue now is convergence between European, Ukrainian and US positions to finalize these peace negotiations under acceptable conditions for Ukraine, for the Europeans and for collective security.”

Starmer, hosting the talks, said Europe’s stance remained unchanged.

“We stand with Ukraine. If there is to be a ceasefire, it must be a just and lasting ceasefire,” he said, adding that the principles guiding European support “have held for a very, very long time.”

Merz said the outcome of the negotiations “remains open,” but warned Europe must remain firm.

“We remain strongly behind Ukraine because the destiny of this country is the destiny of Europe,” he said. Merz said he was “skeptical about some of the details” seen in US documents but said Europe’s commitment to Kyiv “should not be doubted.”

For his part, Zelenskyy thanked European leaders organizing the meeting, underlining the importance of such meetings to discuss "very sensitive issues."

He said unity between Europe and Ukraine, as well as unity between Europe, Ukraine, and the US, is important.

"There are some things which we can't manage without (the) Americans, (and) things which we cannot manage without Europe. That's why need to make some important decisions," Zelenskyy added.