-1

Hong Kong Convicts Jimmy Lai in Security Case, Risking Life Term







By Nectar Gan
December 14, 2025 at 9:39 PM EST
Updated on December 15, 2025 at 6:50 AM EST

Save

6:31

Takeaways by Bloomberg AI

Jimmy Lai was found guilty on all charges in a landmark national security trial and could face life in prison.
Lai was convicted of conspiring to collude with foreign forces and conspiring to publish seditious materials under the Beijing-imposed National Security Law.
The ruling has sparked international condemnation, with the US and UK calling for Lai's release, and may complicate China's efforts to manage tensions with the US.
After nearly five years in detention, former Hong Kong media mogul Jimmy Lai was handed a verdict that could see the 78-year-old locked up for the rest of his life. The outcome may also complicate China’s efforts to manage tensions with the US, whose President Donald Trump has vowed to “save” the outspoken newspaperman.

Lai, who created the now-defunct Apple Daily, was found guilty on Monday on all charges in a landmark national security trial symbolizing President Xi Jinping’s resolve to stamp out political dissent in the once-freewheeling financial hub.


Media Tycoon Jimmy Lai Appears At Court As Prosecution Seeks To Overturn Decision To Grant Bail
Jimmy LaiPhotographer: Chan Long Hei/Bloomberg
The self-made tycoon and democracy advocate is the most prominent figure to be convicted under the National Security Law, which Beijing imposed after mass street protests in 2019 posed the biggest challenge to its rule in the former British colony.

Inside the packed courtroom, Lai sat still as a panel of judges convicted him on two counts of conspiring to collude with foreign forces — a crime punishable by life in prison under the Beijing-imposed security law. The High Court also found Lai guilty of conspiring to publish seditious materials before his pro-democracy tabloid was forced to shutter.

The ruling, delivered by three national security judges hand-picked by the city’s Beijing-backed leader John Lee, portrayed Lai as the “mastermind” behind a sweeping campaign to seek the “downfall” of the ruling Communist Party — actions they said were driven by years of “resentment and hatred” toward China.

Lai “had never wavered in his intention to destabilize the governance of the CCP and despite the enactment of the NSL he was intent on continuing though in a less explicit way,” Judge Esther Toh said, using the initials for the party and the security law.

Toward the end of the 40-minute long hearing, Lai looked calmly across the room at his wife Teresa Lai at the public gallery. As the court rose, the septuagenarian waved and nodded to his supporters and pressed his hands together, before being led out of the glass dock and back to prison. He has been held for some 1,800 days, mostly in solitary confinement.


PlayPlay5:51
WATCH: Bloomberg’s Minmin Low reports on the verdict.
The ruling threatens to inflame tensions between Beijing and Washington just as the two powers navigate a fragile trade truce. Trump, whose name appeared nearly 200 times in the 856-page judgment, has repeatedly pledged to intervene in the case.

During the final stage of the trial in August, Trump said on Fox News that he had raised the case with China, adding that Lai “was not a young guy” and “we’re going to do everything we can” to help him. The US president also appealed to Xi to free the tycoon during trade talks in October, Reuters reported.

There will be plenty of opportunities for Trump to raise Lai’s case with Xi again if he chooses to. Trump has accepted an invitation to visit China in April, and US officials said the two leaders could meet as many as four times next year.

The verdict comes after a marathon trial that started two years ago and spanned over 150 days. Like all national security cases, it was heard without a jury, a significant departure from Hong Kong’s common law tradition.

International condemnation was swift. The US Congressional-Executive Commission on China said in a statement Lai should never have been arrested and called for his freedom.

UK Foreign Secretary Yvette Cooper called for Lai’s “immediate release” and access to all necessary medical treatment. British Prime Minister Keir Starmer had earlier called the release of Lai, a British citizen, a priority.

Lai’s health has deteriorated significantly in prison, with severe weight loss and failing hearing and vision, according to his family. He also suffers from diabetes and heart palpitations.

Eric Lai, a senior research fellow at Georgetown Center for Asian Law, said the former activist could seek an appeal and “it could be a long way for a legal battle.”

“It is still uncertain to what extent or what stage foreign governments would increase enforcement in calling for Jimmy Lai’s release,” he told Bloomberg TV after the verdict.

Officials in Beijing and Hong Kong have long decried any attempts to interfere in the case and insisted that Lai was given a fair trial. On Monday, a Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesperson urged foreign governments not to make “irresponsible remarks” on the case.

Read More:
Hong Kong’s Democratic Party Dissolves After 31 Years
Trump Says He Will Push for Release of Jimmy Lai in Xi Talks
Hong Kong Judges to Decide Jimmy Lai’s Fate as Key Trial Wraps
Hong Kong Gets Swept Up in Trump’s Trade War With China
According to the judgment, Lai ran his media empire as a political tool. The court found that Lai “consciously” used the newspaper to “undermine the legitimacy” of the Hong Kong and central governments.

Lai’s interactions with American politicians were central to the prosecutors’ case. The court ruled that Lai had used his personal influence and money to pursue a campaign to lobby foreign powers to support the protest movement and impose sanctions on Hong Kong and China.

“His constant invitation to the US to help bring down the government of the PRC with the excuse of helping the people of Hong Kong would be analogous to the situation where an American national asks for help from Russia to bring down the US government under the guise of helping the State of California,” Toh said.

Crucially, the judges ruled that Lai’s alleged crimes did not stop when Beijing imposed the National Security Law in June 2020.

The long-awaited verdict was welcomed by Lee, the city’s chief executive, who spoke with reporters before heading to Beijing for his annual duty visit to brief Xi on Hong Kong.

Lee said the ruling against Lai upheld legal justice and safeguarded Hong Kong’s core values, adding that “the judiciary is justified and fearless of any intimidation, resolutely fulfilling its responsibility to safeguard national security.”

Beijing’s Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office said it supports the conviction of the “ringleader of the anti-China forces seeking to destabilize Hong Kong and endanger national security.”


Hong Kong Media Mogul Jimmy Lai Verdict on National Security Case
Teresa Lai, wife of Jimmy Lai, left, their son Lai Shun Yan, center, and Joseph Zen, cardinal of the Holy Roman Church, on Dec. 15.Photographer: Billy H.C. Kwok/ Bloomberg
Lai, a self-made tycoon, arrived in Hong Kong as a 12-year-old stowaway from China and made his fortune in textiles. After founding the Apple Daily in 1995, he became a prominent supporter of the city’s pro-democracy movement and a fierce critic of the Chinese Communist Party.

Long a thorn in Beijing’s side, he now joins a lengthy list of former lawmakers, activists and journalists who have been convicted under the National Security Law.

Since the sweeping legislation came into effect in June 2020, many of Hong Kong’s prominent pro-democracy figures have either been imprisoned or fled into exile. Opposition parties have dissolved, independent media outlets have folded and civil society groups have disbanded. Hong Kong and Beijing authorities have lauded the law for restoring stability and transforming the city “from chaos to order.”

On the eve of Lai’s conviction, Hong Kong’s Democratic Party, once the city’s largest opposition group, voted to dissolve after 31 years of operation.

Lai now awaits sentencing on a later date, after the court holds a four-day mitigation hearing starting Jan. 12. His lawyer Robert Pang said he has yet to make a decision on an appeal.

