-1

Hong Kong court convicts pro-democracy activist and mogul Jimmy Lai
Updated December 15, 20255:55 AM ET 
Heard on Morning Edition
By 

Emily Feng

, 

Ashish Valentine

3-Minute Listen
Transcript
People take part in a demonstration in support of the Taiwan Apple Daily, the last media company owned by the tycoon Jimmy Lai on Dec. 14, 2021, in Taipei, Taiwan.
People take part in a demonstration in support of the Taiwan Apple Daily, the last media company owned by the tycoon Jimmy Lai on Dec.14, 2021, in Taipei, Taiwan.

Lam Yik Fei/Getty Images
The prominent pro-democracy activist Jimmy Lai has been found guilty on all three charges he faced by a Hong Kong national security court.

Hong Kong media tycoon Jimmy Lai pauses during an interview in Hong Kong on July 1, 2020.
Asia
Jimmy Lai: Closing arguments in Hong Kong tycoon national security trial begin
The 855-page verdict — issued more than five years after he was first arrested in 2020 — was delivered to a packed courtroom which included Lai's wife, one of his sons, and Cardinal Joseph Zen, a prominent pro-democracy campaigner who baptized Lai in 1997.

Judge Esther Toh said Lai had been found guilty on two counts of colluding with foreign forces, by seeking out meetings with foreign officials, including with American leaders, and advocating for sanctions on China. Lai was also found guilty on a sedition charge under a separate, colonial-era law.

Pro-democracy activist groups, as well as global human rights and press freedom organizations criticized the verdict as a blow to press freedom. Many governments have also condemned the verdict, and the UK and Taiwan called on Hong Kong authorities to release Lai.

"The Hong Kong court has been compromised and has been politicized in the past five years," said Frances Hui, policy and advocacy coordinator at the pro-democracy advocacy group Committee for Freedom in Hong Kong Foundation. "I think this trial or this verdict is another stamp of proof that the court system is no longer the system that we once respected."

Beijing's Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office welcomed the verdict in a statement, calling Lai a "lackey" for external forces who endangered China's national security.

Lai's sentence will be announced later. The 78-year-old potentially faces life in prison. His next court date is Jan. 12, and his defense has not yet announced whether they intend to appeal.

Lai was initially arrested in August 2020 under a national security law Beijing imposed in Hong Kong, largely in response to mass anti-government protests in 2019, which Lai participated in.

Hong Kong's national security office has arrested hundreds of people under the national security law, which punishes broad buckets of dissenting behavior with up to life in prison. Critics of the law say it has all but squelched any remaining dissent in the region.

Earlier this year, student leader Joshua Wong was hit with new national security charges while already in prison on other charges related to his political activism. In 2024, Hong Kong sent 45 lawmakers and activists to prison for up to a decade on national security charges as well.

Hong Kong's Jimmy Lai, 6 Others, Found Guilty For Roles In Pro-Democracy Protests
Asia
Hong Kong's Jimmy Lai, 6 Others, Found Guilty For Roles In Pro-Democracy Protests
But Lai's trial, which kicked off in 2023, has attracted intense international attention because of Beijing's insistence that he had been instrumental in orchestrating the 2019 anti-Beijing demonstrations. He is also the only defendant in the case who has pleaded not guilty.

"He believed there must be someone to stay behind to show the rest of the world that Hong Kongers are willing to stand up to the Chinese Communist Party no matter how huge the cost will be," said Finn Lau, a Hong Kong political activist who once worked with Lai and who had been implicated in his national security case.

Before his verdict on Monday, Lai was also sentenced to and had been serving two back-to-back 14-month prison stints on other, protest-related charges.

Family members have said Lai has been sustained by his Catholic faith and by the study of scripture after having spent more than 1,800 days in solitary confinement, much of it at his own request, according to the Hong Kong government.

But they also say Lai's health has declined substantially during the last five years in prison through Hong Kong's sweltering summers and damp winters, and that he is suffering from advanced diabetes and heart palpitations.

People leave the West Kowloon Magistrates' Courts in Hong Kong Tuesday, Nov. 19, 2024, following the sentencing in national security case. (AP Photo/Chan Long Hei)
Asia
Dozens sentenced for up to 10 years in prison in Hong Kong national security case
Lai's astonishing rise as a child stowaway in Hong Kong to one of the region's richest men, having made a fortune in fast fashion, took another pivot when he switched to media. He helped found Apple Daily, a popular investigative tabloid which authorities raided, then shut down in 2021. Nine Apple Daily editors and writers were later arrested under the National Security Law.

Six of them became witnesses for the prosecution against Lai.

