1

Hong Kong Democracy Activist Jimmy Lai Convicted Under National Security Law
Lai is one of the most high-profile figures to be sentenced under Hong Kong’s national security law.

121

102
Save


Print
Hong Kong Democracy Activist Jimmy Lai Convicted Under National Security Law
Jimmy Lai outside West Kowloon Magistrates' Court in Hong Kong, on Sept. 18, 2020. Sung Pi-lung/The Epoch Times
Frank Fang
Frank Fang
Reporter
12/14/2025|Updated: 12/15/2025
0:00

4:15
X 1




Jimmy Lai, a former newspaper publisher and one of Hong Kong’s most outspoken critics of China’s communist regime, has been convicted in a national security trial—a case that has drawn international scrutiny amid Hong Kong’s continued erosion of freedoms.

Lai, 78, founder of the now-defunct pro-democracy newspaper Apple Daily, was convicted on Monday local time on all three charges against him—two counts of “conspiracy to collude with foreign forces” under the Beijing-imposed national security law and one count of “sedition” under a colonial-era sedition law.

Lai, who has pleaded not guilty to all three charges, will be sentenced at a later date. He could face life in prison.

Story continues below advertisement

AD
Lai was arrested in August 2020 and has been imprisoned for more than 1,800 days since being charged in December 2020.

His trial lasted 156 days, during which lawmakers and human rights organizations worldwide repeatedly called for his immediate release.
In August, President Donald Trump said he had raised Lai’s case with Beijing.
Related Stories
The Epoch Times
US Backs Philippines After Fishermen Injured in South China Sea Clash
The Epoch Times
On Human Rights Day, Lawmaker Encourages Advocates to ‘Keep up Pressure on China’
Lai’s declining health in prison has sparked concerns, compounded by his existing diabetes, heart issues, and high blood pressure.
His lawyers and family have expressed concerns about inadequate specialized care for Lai’s diabetes. His son, Sebastien Lai, has reported his father’s condition has visibly deteriorated, with significant weight loss and frailty.

Story continues below advertisement

AD
Sebastien said that for the past five years, Lai has been kept in solitary confinement and has been deprived of sunlight and fresh air.

The conviction immediately drew international criticism.

“Jimmy Lai was found guilty simply for engaging in journalism and for his faith in democracy,” the Congressional-Executive Commission on China (CECC) said in a statement.
“It is another sad reminder that Hong Kong arbitrarily detains political prisoners at a rate like Venezuela or Burma. That Hong Kong once vaunted rule of law system is gone, is now undeniable,” the commission added. “Lai should never have been arrested, and now should be free unconditionally to be reunited with his family.”

Story continues below advertisement

AD
Thibaut Bruttin, director general of Reporters Without Borders, called the conviction “unlawful” on “trumped-up national security charges,” according to a statement.
“This unlawful conviction only demonstrates the alarming deterioration of media freedom in the territory: make no mistake: it is not an individual who has been on trial—it is press freedom itself, and with this verdict that has been shattered,” Bruttin said.

“Democracies must finally act, and act fast: if they don’t, Lai will die in jail, and they will send a clear signal to the Chinese regime that it can spread its authoritarian model and violate international law, scot-free.”

Beh Lih Yi, Asia-Pacific director of the Committee to Protect Journalists, also called for his immediate release, saying that his poor health puts him at risk of dying while he remains in prison.

Story continues below advertisement

AD
“This sham conviction is a disgraceful act of persecution,” Beh said in a statement.
“The ruling underscores Hong Kong’s utter contempt for press freedom, which is supposed to be protected under the city’s mini-constitution, the Basic Law. Jimmy Lai’s only crime is running a newspaper and defending democracy.”

Lai’s plight was also highlighted in a recent CECC report, which reported that he had been held in solitary confinement, “spending over 23 hours a day in his cell and was deprived of independent medical care,” citing his legal team.
The report called on Washington to impose sanctions on Hong Kong’s government officials, prosecutors, judges, police, and foreign institutions for the “systematic erosion of Hong Kong’s autonomy and fundamental freedoms” under the United States’ two U.S. laws, the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act and the Hong Kong Autonomy Act.
The commission also called on Congress to pass the Hong Kong Judicial Sanctions Act, which would “mandate stronger sanctions on officials responsible for undermining democracy, human rights, and due process,” according to the report.
