-2

Trump sues the BBC in Florida
Rob Beschizza  5:08 am Tue Dec 16, 2025
Steve Travelguide / Shutterstock Steve Travelguide / Shutterstock
U.S. President Donald Trump is suing the British Broadcasting Corporation in Florida, demanding $5bn for editing audio of his Jan 6 speech in a documentary to make it appear his "fight like hell" statement followed immediately after telling his supporters to march on the capitol. Though Trump has elsewhere defended the Jan 6 riots and pardoned those involved, the slick edit was journalistically scandalous, the BBC apologized, and several officials there resigned.

A BBC spokesperson said: "As we have made clear previously, we will be defending this case."

"We are not going to make further comment on ongoing legal proceedings."

Trump said last month he planned to sue the BBCfor the documentary, which aired in the UK ahead of the 2024 US election.

"I think I have to do it," Trump told reporters then of his plans. "They cheated. They changed the words coming out of my mouth."

Though the BBC doesn't have significant business in Florida and the relevant program was never broadcast or made available there (and in fact was specifically blocked to viewers outside the U.K) the point is to put it at an expensive disadvantage in a Trump-friendly legal venue.

In his lawsuit, Trump cites agreements the BBC had with other distributors to show content, specifically one with a third-party media corporation that allegedly had licensing rights to the documentary outside the UK. The BBC has not yet responded to these claims, nor has the company with the alleged distribution agreement.


AD

Like Trump's routine lawsuits against U.S. media, this is a nuisance lawsuit whose purpose is to harrass the target and exploit the fact that it's cheaper to settle than to fight. In other words, you bribe him to go away. ABC News paid him $15m and Paramount $16m to settle lawsuits that experts said Trump had no reasonable prospect of winning. CNN held its ground and won. A case is outstanding against the New York Times.

The BBC is a good target for failure mode analysis: squeeze it and see what comes out. Trump's lawyers will understand that despite being a foreign, publicly-run broadcaster, it's made of the same hapless managers that he's always had success pushing around. He likely thinks that the U.K. government is made of similar stock and will do little to defend the institution, appeasing him even at humiliating cost. Moreover, Britain's right-wing print media and Conservative opposition openly despise the BBC and see in Trump an opportunity to further harm it. Trump is very unpopular in the U.K., with a 16% approal rating, but his politics are on the rise there due to the above and other factors.