-1

Trump sues the BBC for $10 billion, alleging defamation over January 6 documentary
By Katherine Li and Aditi Bharade
Trump sues the BBC for defamation over editing of January 6 speech

President Donald Trump sues the BBC for $5 billion for defamation.Isabel Infantes/REUTERS
Dec 15, 2025, 8:22 PM ET

Share
SaveSaved
Add us on 
Donald Trump has filed a $10 billion defamation suit against the BBC.
He took offense to the BBC's portrayal of him in its "Trump: A Second Chance" documentary.
The BBC apologized for the documentary, but said Trump does not have a valid claim for a defamation suit.
President Donald Trump has sued the BBC for defamation over a documentary that his lawyers say presents a "false and defamatory" portrayal of him.

On Monday night, Trump's lawyers filed a civil complaint in a federal court in Florida, seeking at least $10 billion in damages from the British broadcaster.

The 46-page lawsuit claims that the BBC has defamed Trump in a Panorama documentary that aired about a week before the 2024 election, called "Trump: A Second Chance." The complaint alleges the program presented a "false, defamatory, deceptive, disparaging, inflammatory, and malicious depiction" of Trump.

The suit's allegations focus on how the documentary was edited, specifically regarding footage of Trump's January 6, 2021, speech near the White House.

"President Trump's powerhouse lawsuit is holding the BBC accountable for its defamation and reckless election interference just as he has held other fake news mainstream media responsible for their wrongdoing," a spokesperson for Trump's legal team told Business Insider.

The filing included correspondence that Trump and the BBC's legal team exchanged in November.

Trump's attorney, Alejandro Brito, wrote a letter to the BBC on November 9, demanding that it retract "false and defamatory statements" about Trump. Brito threatened to sue the BBC for $1 billion if it did not comply.

The BBC's legal team wrote back on November 13, saying that the BBC had "no intention of misleading anyone" and included a copy of the outlet's apology letter to Trump. The correspondence said that Trump did not have a basis for a defamation claim.

In a separate online statement on the same day, the BBC said the outlet and its chair, Samir Shah, were "sorry for the edit of the President's speech on 6 January 2021."

"The BBC has no plans to rebroadcast the documentary 'Trump: A Second Chance?' on any BBC platforms," the statement said. "While the BBC sincerely regrets the manner in which the video clip was edited, we strongly disagree there is a basis for a defamation claim."

The BBC did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

Correction: An earlier version of this story said Trump is suing the BBC for at least $5 billion. He is suing the BBC for at least $10 billion.