-1
Trump sues BBC for $10bn over edited 2021 US Capitol riot speech
Lawyers for US President Donald Trump say the BBC caused him overwhelming reputational and financial harm.

Security guards outside BBC Broadcasting House in London
Security guards stand outside the BBC building in London, the United Kingdom [File: Kirsty Wigglesworth/AP]

By David D. Lee and News Agencies

Published On 16 Dec 2025
16 Dec 2025
Click here to share on social media
Share

Save

United States President Donald Trump has filed a lawsuit seeking at least $10bn from the BBC over a documentary that edited his speech to supporters before the US Capitol riot in 2021.

The lawsuit, filed in federal court in Miami on Monday, seeks “damages in an amount not less than $5,000,000,000” for each of two counts against the United Kingdom broadcaster for alleged defamation and violation of the Florida Deceptive and Unfair Trade Practices Act.

Recommended Stories
list of 4 items
list 1 of 4Israel to demolish 25 homes in occupied West Bank’s Nur Shams camp
list 2 of 4Trump says deal to end Ukraine war ‘closer than ever’ after Berlin talks
list 3 of 4How will US respond to the killing of three of its soldiers in Syria?
list 4 of 4The Take: Will the Bondi Beach shooting change Australia’s gun laws?
end of list
Earlier in the day, Trump confirmed his plans to file the lawsuit.

“I’m suing the BBC for putting words in my mouth, literally … I guess they used AI or something,” he told reporters at the White House.

“That’s called fake news .”

BBC apology
Trump has accused the publicly owned broadcaster of defaming him by splicing together parts of a January 6, 2021, speech, including one section where he told supporters to march on the Capitol, and another where he said, “Fight like hell”.

The edited sections of his speech omitted words in which Trump also called for peaceful protest.

Trump’s lawsuit alleges that the BBC defamed him, and his lawyers say the documentary caused him overwhelming reputational and financial harm.

Following the lawsuit, the BBC said it would defend the case and would not make any further comment.

The broadcaster had already apologised to Trump, admitted an error of judgement and acknowledged that the edit gave the mistaken impression that he had made a direct call for violent action.

The broadcaster also said that there was no legal basis for the lawsuit, and that to overcome the US Constitution’s strong legal protections for free speech and the press, Trump will need to prove in court not only that the edit was false and defamatory, but also that the BBC knowingly misled viewers or acted recklessly.

Advertisement

AD

The broadcaster could argue that the documentary was substantially true and its editing decisions did not create a false impression, legal experts said. It could also claim the programme did not damage Trump’s reputation.

Get instant alerts and updates based on your interests. Be the first to know when big stories happen.
Yes, keep me updated
Speaking to Sky News on Tuesday, British minister Stephen Kinnock said the broadcaster had apologised and said there were no grounds for legal action. “It’s right that the BBC stands firm on that point,” he said.

Rioters gather with Trump signs before the steps of the US Capitol. Smoke or tear gas can be seen rising from the crowd.
Rioters attack the US Capitol in Washington, DC, on January 6, 2021, in an attempt to disrupt the certification of Electoral College votes and the election victory of President Joe Biden [File: John Minchillo/AP Photo]
Trump, in his lawsuit, said that the BBC, despite its apology, “has made no showing of actual remorse for its wrongdoing nor meaningful institutional changes to prevent future journalistic abuses”.

A spokesman for Trump’s legal team said in a statement that the BBC had “a long pattern of deceiving its audience in coverage of President Trump, all in service of its own leftist political agenda”.

The dispute over the edited speech, featured on the BBC’s Panorama documentary show shortly before the 2024 presidential election, prompted a public relations crisis for the broadcaster, leading to the resignations of its two most senior officials.

Other media organisations have settled with Trump, including CBS and ABC, when Trump sued them following his comeback win in the November 2024 election.

Trump has also filed lawsuits against The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal and a newspaper in Iowa, all of which have denied wrongdoing.
