3

UPDATE: Trump Files $10 Billion Defamation Lawsuit Against the BBC for Doctoring January 6 Speech
by Jordan Conradson Dec. 15, 2025 4:40 pm
TruthTweetShareGettrGab
Former President Donald Trump speaks in the Oval Office surrounded by military personnel and American flags, emphasizing his message to the audience.

Update: President Trump filed a $10 billion defamation lawsuit against BBC.

Fox News reported:

President Donald Trump filed a monster $10 billion lawsuit on Monday against the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) for its 2024 “Panorama” documentary that distorted his Jan. 6 remarks.

Trump sued the BBC for both defamation and for a violation of Florida’s Deceptive and Unfair Trade Practices Act for $5 billion apiece, as the president is seeking $10 billion total. The suit, filed in the Southern District of Florida Federal Court, was filed in a personal capacity and names BBC and BBC studios productions as defendants.

“The formerly respected and now disgraced BBC defamed President Trump by intentionally, maliciously, and deceptively doctoring his speech in a brazen attempt to interfere in the 2024 Presidential Election. The BBC has a long pattern of deceiving its audience in coverage of President Trump, all in service of its own leftist political agenda. President Trump’s powerhouse lawsuit is holding the BBC accountable for its defamation and reckless election interference just as he has held other fake news mainstream media responsible for their wrongdoing,” a spokesperson for Trump’s legal team told Fox News Digital.

President Trump on Monday told reporters that he plans to file a long-awaited lawsuit against the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) for editing footage from January 6, 2021, to misquote his January 6 speech “this afternoon or tomorrow morning.”

This comes after a whistleblower exposed the BBC for doctoring footage of Trump’s speech at the White House Ellipse to make it sound like he was inciting his supporters to riot and “fight like hell” after walking to the Capitol.

But Trump actually said, We’re going to walk down to the Capitol, and we’re going to cheer on our brave Senators and Congressmen and Women.” For anyone who was there, it can also be remembered that the President repeatedly called for his supporters to march “peacefully and patriotically.”

Below is a side-by-side clip of the edited version of his speech versus what he actually said:


Trump January 6 Speech Edited by BBC

Trump said last month that he plans to sue them for “anywhere between $1 billion and $5 billion,” The Gateway Pundit reported.

And on Monday, Trump told reporters in the Oval Office, “In a little while, you’ll be seeing, I’m suing the BBC for putting words in my mouth.”

“They actually have me speaking with words that I never said, and they got caught because I believe somebody at BBC said this is so bad it has to be reported. That’s called fake news,” he continued. “So, we’ll be filing that suit probably this afternoon or tomorrow morning.”

WATCH:

Trump: In a little while, you’ll be seeing, I’m suing the BBC for putting words in my mouth. Literally, they put words in my mouth. They had me saying things that I never said coming out. I guess they used AI or something. So, we’ll be bringing that lawsuit. A lot of people are asking, “When are you bringing that lawsuit?” Even the media can’t believe that one— they actually put terrible words in my mouth having to do with January 6 that I didn’t say, and they’re beautiful words that I said, right?

They’re beautiful words, talking about patriotism and all of the good things that I said. They didn’t say that, but they put terrible words. They actually have me speaking with words that I never said, and they got caught because I believe somebody at BBC said this is so bad it has to be reported. That’s called fake news, so we’ll be filing that suit probably this afternoon or tomorrow morning.


Trump Says He's Filing Lawsuit Against the BBC This Afternoon

The President’s announcement came after he recognized 13 service members with the Mexican Border Defense Medal to award them for assisting Customs and Border Protection at the US-Mexico border.

Trump also signed an executive order to designate fentanyl as a Weapon of Mass Destruction (WMD) and empower his administration to take on the “concentrated, large-scale terror attacks by organized adversaries.”

This will likely be used to justify the defense of America against drug cartels further, as the order directs the Secretary of War and Secretary of Homeland Security to “update all directives regarding the Armed Forces’ response to chemical incidents in the homeland to include the threat of illicit fentanyl.”