-2

Susie Wiles spins out over bombshell interview: 'Disingenuously framed hit piece'
Travis Gettys
December 16, 2025 10:24AM ET




BeLoud Share
Susie Wiles spins out over bombshell interview: 'Disingenuously framed hit piece'
Republican presidential nominee former President Donald Trump sits with Susie Wiles as he attends the New York Jets football game against the Pittsburgh Steelers at Acrisure Stadium, Sunday, Oct. 20, 2024, in Pittsburgh. Evan Vucci/Pool via REUTERS

President Donald Trump's Chief of Staff Susie Wiles disputed a Vanity Fair article based on hours of interviews she gave to an author.

Wiles spoke 11 times to Christopher Whipple, who has written a highly regarded book on other White House chiefs of staff, and the magazine published the first of two parts of an article based on those conversations that shocked many readers with claims about the president and other high-ranking administration officials.

"The article published early this morning is a disingenuously framed hit piece on me and the finest President, White House staff, and Cabinet in history," Wiles posted on X after the article went live online.

ALSO READ: 'Massive corruption': Supreme Court set to boost Trump in case bigger than Dobbs — experts

"Significant context was disregarded and much of what I, and others, said about the team and the president was left out of the story," she added. "I assume, after reading it, that this was done to paint an overwhelmingly chaotic and negative narrative about the president and our team."

Wiles described the president as having "an alcoholic's personality" and harshly criticized Vice President JD Vance several times in the published piece. She was also sharply critical of Attorney General Pam Bondi's handling of the Epstein matter.

"The truth is the Trump White House has already accomplished more in eleven months than any other president has accomplished in eight years and that is due to the unmatched leadership and vision of President Trump, for whom I have been honored to work for the better part of a decade," Wiles added. "None of this will stop our relentless pursuit of Making America Great Again!"