2

WATCH: CNN Hack Has Bizarre Meltdown, Declares Trump’s Donor-Funded Ballroom Is Turning America Into A “Banana Republic”
By Will TannerDecember 15, 2025Updated:December 15, 2025
Facebook
Twitter
Email

In the latest of bonkers meltdowns over President Donald Trump’s White House ballroom, which is being funded by private donors rather than at taxpayer expense, hack CNN contributor Van Jones went absolutely ballistic in a bizarre freakout on air in which he declared that putting a ballroom in by the White House was turning America into a banana republic.

As background, the precipitating factor for Van Jones’s freakout was that the president had knocked down an ugly, FDR-era office complex to build the ballroom, and has since been sued for having done so by The National Trust for Historic Preservation. CNN host Kaitlin Collins asked Van Jones about that suit, which set off his remarks.


Beginning, the hack CNN contributor responded with a lengthy and tiresome attempt to summarize the unitary executive theory, which originally became popular under the Bush Administration. He said, “This unitary executive fixation that basically says the president can do whatever the president wants to do, and it’s not just Congress that passes the bill that you’re talking about, these are bills signed by Congress, passed by Congress and signed by presidents that say, you have to do these things a certain way.”


Continuing, he tried to connect that to the Trump presidency by insisting that President Trump, in generally just using his executive powers to do what he was elected to do rather than working with the buffoons in Congress, is acting in a “lawless” fashion. He said, “We have a lawless president and a Supreme Court that’s enabling him.”

Going on from there, he said that MAGA’s increasing disillusionment with the process of going through woke courts ruled by activist judges for every little thing is a sign that America is an “authoritarian” country, saying, “I just think that this is what we often hear from our Republican friends is, ‘I like the outcome so the process doesn’t matter.’ That’s what happens in an authoritarian country. That’s what happens with a dictatorship.”


Using that to start rambling aobut “democracy” and “rule of law,” he said, “It turns out the process does matter in a democracy, rules matter and democracy has something called rule of law. If you want to make America great again, how did America get great in the first place? Rule of law, free markets, everybody welcome if you follow the rules.”


Continuing to rant and ramble about lawlessness, then connecting that to the ballroom by claiming that America is a “banana republic”, he said, “If you have a lawless country, meaning the executive branch, whatever it wants to, you’re on the path to being a banana republic. So it’s not that people— maybe this big golden ball thing with golden toilets, I have no idea what he’s doing, maybe people will like it, but if it’s that great, why not follow the rules.”

"*" indicates required fields

GOP should investigate Nancy Pelosi*
 Yes
 No
Email*

This poll subscribes you to our premium network of content. Unsubscribe at any time.

Watch him here:


President Trump, posting about the ballroom at the end of November, said, “The Presidential Ballroom, which I am building at the White House, with all private donations and funding (ZERO cost to the American Taxpayer!), will be, at its completion, the most beautiful and spectacular Ballroom anywhere in the World! It is something that has been needed and desired at the White House for over 150 years, but something which no other President was equipped to do — But I am, and as long as we are going to do it, we are going to do it RIGHT. It will be a magnificent addition to the White House, the most important since the building of the West Wing!”