1

Trump administration says White House ballroom construction is a matter of national security
The government’s response to the lawsuit offers the most comprehensive look yet at the ballroom construction project, including how it was so swiftly approved by the Trump administration bureaucracy and its expanding scope.
Work continues on the construction of the ballroom at the White House, Tuesday, Dec., 9, 2025, in Washington, where the East Wing once stood. (AP Photo/Pablo Martinez Monsivais)
Work continues on the construction of the ballroom at the White House, Tuesday, Dec., 9, 2025, in Washington, where the East Wing once stood. (AP Photo/Pablo Martinez Monsivais)
By Associated Press
PUBLISHED: December 15, 2025 at 6:12 PM EST | UPDATED: December 15, 2025 at 6:40 PM EST

By DARLENE SUPERVILLE

WASHINGTON (AP) — The Trump administration said Monday in a court filing that the president’s White House ballroom construction project must continue for reasons of national security.

Related Articles
House Speaker Johnson rebuffs efforts to extend health care subsidies, pushing ahead with GOP plan
FAA head vows to maintain safety measures implemented after tragic DC plane crash
States sue Trump administration again over billions in withheld electric vehicle charging funds
The US labels another Latin American cartel a terrorist group as the anti-drug war escalates
Trump expands travel ban, adding 5 more countries and imposing new limits on others
The filing came in response to a lawsuit filed last Friday by the National Trust for Historic Preservation asking a federal judge to halt the project until it goes through multiple independent reviews and wins approval from Congress.

In its filing, the administration included a declaration from the deputy director of the U.S. Secret Service saying more work on the site of the former White House East Wing is still needed to meet the agency’s “safety and security requirements.” The administration has offered to share classified details with the judge in an in-person setting without the plaintiffs present.

The government’s response to the lawsuit offers the most comprehensive look yet at the ballroom construction project, including a window into how it was so swiftly approved by the Trump administration bureaucracy and its expanding scope.

The filings assert that final plans for the ballroom have yet to be completed despite the ongoing demolition and construction work. Below-grade demolition of the site continues, wrote John Stanwich, the Park Service’s liaison to the White House, and work on the foundations is set to begin in January. Above-grade construction “is not anticipated to begin until April 2026, at the earliest,” he wrote.

The National Trust for Historic Preservation, a privately funded group, is asking the U.S. District Court to block Trump’s ballroom addition until it goes through comprehensive design reviews, environmental assessments, public comments and congressional debate and ratification.

Trump had the East Wing torn down in October as part of the project to build an estimated $300 million, 90,000-square-foot ballroom before his term ends in 2029.

The project has prompted criticism in the historic preservation and architectural communities, and among his political adversaries, but the lawsuit is the most tangible effort thus far to alter or stop the president’s plans for an addition that itself would be nearly twice the size of the White House before the East Wing’s demolition.

A hearing in the case was scheduled Tuesday in federal court in Washington.

