2

Trump admin defends White House ballroom as national security matter
Secret Service warns halting $300M project would compromise presidential protection requirements
By Ashley Carnahan Fox News
Published December 16, 2025 8:46am EST
Facebook
Twitter
Threads
Flipboard
Comments
Print
Email
Add Fox News on Google
Gesture
Like
👍
👎
❤️
18

Democrats in 'full meltdown mode' over Trump's privately funded ballroom
Fox News political analyst Lisa Boothe discusses Democrats' outrage over President Donald Trump's ballroom construction during the ongoing shutdown. 

The Trump administration argued in a court filing on Monday that pausing construction on the new White House ballroom would undermine national security, citing a Secret Service declaration warning that halting work would leave the site unable to meet "safety and security requirements" needed to protect the president. 

The declaration says the White House's East Wing, demolished in October and now undergoing below-grade work, cannot be left unfinished without compromising essential security measures.

"Accordingly, any pause in construction, even temporarily, would leave the contractor's obligation unfulfilled in this regard and consequently hamper the Secret Service’s ability to meet its statutory obligations and protective mission," reads the filing in part.


The government’s memorandum was in response to a lawsuit filed last week in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia by the National Trust for Historic Preservation, a nonprofit that says it advocates for preserving historic sites of national importance and protecting the public’s role in that process.

WALZ REPEATS DEBUNKED CLAIM THAT TRUMP CONSIDERS WHITE HOUSE BALLROOM 'TOP PRIORITY'
East Wing of the White House
An excavator works to clear rubble after the East Wing of the White House was demolished on October 23, 2025, in Washington, D.C. (Eric Lee/Getty Images)
The National Trust lawsuit targets key government officials responsible for overseeing the White House grounds and the agencies managing the construction project, including the National Park Service and the Department of the Interior.

It argues that pausing the Trump administration’s ballroom project is essential to prevent irreversible changes while the required oversight and public involvement procedures are carried out.

"Submitting the project to the National Capital Planning Commission for review protects the iconic historic features of the White House campus as it evolves. Inviting comments from the American people signals respect and helps ensure a lasting legacy that befits a government of the people, by the people, for the people," said Carol Quillen, the president and CEO of the National Trust for Historic Preservation.

TRUMP UNVEILS VISION FOR EISENHOWER EXECUTIVE OFFICE BUILDING MAKEOVER
White House exterior with addition of new ballroom
A McCrery Architects rendering provided by the White House of the exterior of the new ballroom. (White House)
The White House announced President Donald Trump’s plans in July to move forward with a 90,000-square-foot state ballroom that would cost an estimated $200 million. That figure has now risen to at least $300 million, and while the project is backed by some private donors, Trump has also insisted it will be funded "100% by me and some friends of mine."


In its filing, the administration emphasized that key regulatory reviews are forthcoming, saying it plans to submit draft architectural drawings and materials to the National Capital Planning Commission and the U.S. Commission of Fine Arts in the coming weeks. 

The government argued the lawsuit is premature because above-grade construction is not scheduled to begin until April 2026.
white house ballroom
A McCrery Architects rendering provided by the White House of the new ballroom. (The White House)
CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FOX NEWS APP

The National Trust, however, counters that the scale of the project makes early intervention necessary. In its lawsuit, the group argues that the 90,000-square-foot addition would dwarf the Executive Residence and permanently upset the classical balance of the White House's design. 

The complaint also cites an October statement from the Society of Architectural Historians, which warned that the proposed ballroom would represent the most significant exterior change to the building in more than 80 years.