-2

Donald Trump Jr. Is Engaged (Again). Will Bettina Anderson Get a White House Wedding?
This is Don Jr.’s third engagement, and would be his second marriage.

By Kase Wickman
December 16, 2025
Image may contain Donald Trump Jr. Kayla Ewell Blazer Clothing Coat Jacket Accessories Formal Wear Tie and Suit
Bettina Anderson and Donald Trump Jr. ahead of Trump's address to a joint session of Congress, March 4, 2025.SAUL LOEB/Getty Images.

Save this story
Looks like Bettina Anderson is going to have to update her Instagram bio. The Palm Beach socialite, who has been publicly dating Donald Trump Jr. for just over a year and whose intro on the social media site currently describes her as “just your typical stay at home mom…only I don’t do household chores…or have a husband…or have kids” is now engaged to be married to the eldest son of Donald Trump.

The two announced their betrothal Monday evening at the White House, and Laura Loomer posted a clip of the moment to social media.


As the father of the groom looked on in the background, Don Jr. took the microphone, thanking Anderson, who was standing to his right in a strapless red dress with a stone twinkling on her ring finger, for “that one word: yes.”

Watch Now:

Every Stranger Things Fan Theory


“When you’re down there and you’re gonna go, and you’re trying to ask, and you’re not sure what the answer’s gonna be, it’s always a little bit rough,” he said of the proposal. “But she said yes, so that’s a big win for the end of the year.”

This is the third time Don Jr. has gotten engaged, which explains that “always” he dropped. He proposed to and married Vanessa Trump, his first wife, who has been romantically linked to golf star Tiger Woods since early this year, and before Anderson, he was engaged to Kimberly Guilfoyle, whose relationship with Don Jr. ended about the same time as her ambassadorship to Greece was announced and Anderson and Trump’s relationship became public. Are those last events connected? Who could even begin to say!

The engagement could be seen as a belated birthday present to Anderson, who turned 39 on December 1, or one heck of an early Christmas stocking stuffer.

Or, hey, maybe there’s something in the air: Earlier Monday, Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, who recently announced that she will resign from her position in January following disagreements with the president, shared that she is also engaged to be married, in her case to journalist Brian Glenn of Real America’s Voice.

The White House, when contacted by Vanity Fair for comment on the presidential offspring’s latest betrothal, referred us to Don Jr.’s representative. At the time of publication of this article, the spokesperson had not responded to the request for comment.

Anderson also said a few words to the assembled well-wishers at the White House Monday, where her experience as a benefit host, welcoming and thanking attendees and sponsors, was on full display.

“Wow, what a privilege it is to be here in the White House, Mr. President,” she said. “To our first lady—these decorations! Am I right? Are they unbelievable? This has really been the most unforgettable weekend of my life, and I get to marry the love of my life, and I feel just like the luckiest girl in the world.”

Those “unbelievable” Christmas decorations masterminded by Melania Trump include a Lego recreation of her husband’s mugshot alongside one of George Washington’s presidential portraits, as well as topple-ready structures made of dominoes and playing cards. It’s an about-face from the chilling blood red trees of yesteryear, though no update has been publicly offered on whether the first lady now “gives a fuck about Christmas stuff and decorations,” a switch from what she said in 2018.

Is a White House wedding in the (nondecorative) cards for this second Trump administration? According to the White House Historical Association, there have been 19 weddings hosted by sitting presidents and first ladies, most recently in 2022, when Naomi Biden, granddaughter of Joe Biden and Jill Biden, married Peter Neal on the South Lawn.

Last time Don Jr. got married, in 2005, it was hosted at Mar-a-Lago, the Trump family’s private club in Palm Beach. (The divorce between Don Jr. and Vanessa was finalized in late 2018. Their wedded journey began in 2004, when he proposed in front of a now-closed jewelry store in New Jersey's Short Hills Mall—the store had given him the ring for free in exchange for publicity tying it to the Big Q.)

Given Anderson’s deep roots in the area—her grandparents and parents were Palm Beach society fixtures—perhaps a second go-round at the golf club-turned-MAGA HQ is in order. But would a member of the first family turn down the chance for a White House wedding? Wouldn’t one of those custom dance floor projections with the happy couple’s initials look just charming beamed onto whatever ends up happening with that East Wing renovation?

After all, Susie Wiles, Trump’s chief of staff, told VF’s Chris Whipple that “you only know a little bit of what he’s planning” with that construction project, which saw the East Wing demolished.

