-1

Donald Trump Jr. is engaged to Bettina Anderson, Florida socialite
Kinsey Crowley
Jennifer Sangalang
USA TODAY NETWORK
Updated Dec. 16, 2025, 12:15 p.m. ET


Deeper
Dive
BETA
How do Anderson and Trump Jr.'s family backgrounds compare?

Who is Kimberly Guilfoyle's current role?

Why did Trump announce engagement at White House event?

How do Anderson and Trump Jr.'s family backgrounds compare?

What was the November unemployment rate?

President Donald Trump's eldest son is engaged.

A spokesperson for Donald Trump Jr. confirmed his engagement to Florida socialite Bettina Anderson with USA TODAY on Dec. 16. Trump Jr. and Anderson were widely rumored to be a couple starting about a year ago, though his split from ex-fiancée, now U.S. Ambassador to Greece Kimberly Guilfoyle, had not been confirmed at the time.

President Trump announced their engagement at a White House Holiday party on Dec. 15, according to a video posted to social media by Laura Loomer. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

"I just want to wish all of you guys an incredible holiday season ... and to thank Bettina for that one word, 'yes,'" Trump Jr. said in the video.

"This has really been the most unforgettable weekend of my life, and I get to marry the love of my life, and I feel just like the luckiest girl in the world," Anderson said.

Trump Jr. has five kids with ex-wife Vanessa Trump. Anderson has no children.

More: What to know about Bettina Anderson, Florida socialite dating Trump Jr.

Who is Bettina Anderson?
Anderson is a socialite and model based in Palm Beach, Florida.

She is the daughter of a Palm Beach businessman and philanthropist, Harry Loy Anderson Jr., and Inger Anderson. Harry Loy Anderson Jr. also had three other daughters and two sons, according to his obituary in the Palm Beach Daily News, part of the USA TODAY Network.

Bettina Anderson went to Columbia University and lived in New York for a few extra years, she said in a March 2024 podcast appearance. She started a nonprofit with her brothers, and her LinkedIn lists her current job as the executive director of Paradise.ngo. She also helps lead the Project Paradise Film Fund, which helps fund conservation stories, the website states.

"Bettina is passionate about protecting Florida wildlife and preserving the natural treasures that make Florida such a unique and beautiful place to live," her bio on the Project Paradise site states. "Bettina loves being in the water and, as a licensed rebreather tech diver, she has a unique and special lens for witnessing the impact that over-development is having on our natural waters and marine wildlife."

Trump Jr.'s past relationships, from ex-wife Vanessa Trump to Kimberly Guilfoyle
Did Trump take MLK Day away? National Parks dropped it from free days.
Pete Hegseth's 2016 comments resurface amid boat strike controversy.
Melania Trump's foster initiative to get proceeds from $2,800 purse
Was Trump in 'Home Alone 2' film? He had cameos before being president
Who shot Trump in the ear, and what happened to him? What to know
Trump Jr., 47, is the eldest child of President Trump and his first wife, the late Ivana Trump.

Donald Trump Jr. was previously married to former model Vanessa Trump from 2005 to 2018. They have five children, including rising golf star Kai Trump. Currently, Vanessa Trump is dating golf legend and Donald Trump’s longtime friend, Tiger Woods.

Get the Susan Page newsletter in your inbox.
Get the latest story from Susan Page right in your inbox.

Delivery: Varies
Your Email
Donald Trump Jr. and Guilfoyle started dating in 2018 after his divorce from Vanessa Trump was finalized. The pair were engaged and bought a house together in 2021 and split sometime in 2024. (Guilfoyle was once also married to California Gov. Gavin Newsom.)

In December 2024, Donald Trump Jr. was publicly spotted with model Anderson. The now-engaged pair has since attended several high-profile events, such as Donald Trump's inauguration, the 2025 Super Bowl LIX and Donald Trump's 79th birthday and the Army military parade celebration in Washington, D.C.

