0

Photos of Bettina Anderson, Florida socialite engaged to Trump Jr.
How long has Trump Jr. been dating Bettina Anderson? Palm Beach, Florida, model and socialite has attended many Trump family events. Couple got engaged December 2025.
Portrait of Jennifer SangalangJennifer Sangalang
USA TODAY NETWORK - Florida
Dec. 16, 2025, 11:18 a.m. ET


Donald Trump Jr. was married to Vanessa Trump until 2018. They have 5 kids together. She's dating Tiger Woods, a close friend of Donald Trump.
Bettina Anderson was in the Trump family VIP box at the July 2024 Republican National Convention.
It is not known when Donald Trump Jr. and ex-fiancee Kimberly Guilfoyle called off their wedding plans.
Donald Trump Jr. and Bettina Anderson have been dating since 2024. He and Guilfoyle were together from 2018 to 2024.
Who is Bettina Anderson? When it comes to Palm Beach society, the model and socialite's a well-known figure.

But in December 2024, she achieved global fame after she was spotted kissing the son of President Donald Trump in Palm Beach, Florida.

A year later, she's engaged to Donald Trump Jr.

Photos of Donald Trump Jr. and Bettina Anderson holding hands and kissing were posted around Dec. 10, 2024, on British tabloid sites, and "Bettina Anderson" dominated Google News and search engine queries. At the time, most assumed Donald Trump Jr. and his longtime live-in girlfriend, former Fox News host Kimberly Guilfoyle, were still a couple and planning their wedding before, during and after the 2024 presidential election.


Before Donald Trump Jr., Palm Beach socialite Bettina Anderson helped raise money for Florida charities
At the Republican National Convention in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, in July 2024, when then-former President Donald Trump accepted the Republican nomination, Donald Trump Jr. and Kimberly Guilfoyle were campaigning together on his behalf. Bettina Anderson, however, was part of the Trump family VIP box, and photographed sitting next to Guilfoyle's son, Ronan Villency (see photo gallery with this story).


In October 2024, weeks before Election Day, Anderson co-hosted an invitation-only Trump fundraiser. Two months later, when the photos went viral, she became known as Donald Trump Jr.'s new girlfriend.

Days after the tabloid photos of the new couple were posted online, with many questioning Donald Trump Jr.'s relationship status with Kimberly Guilfoyle, Donald Trump announced his first-born son's ex-fiancee would become the ambassador to Greece during his administration.

Get the Afternoon Update newsletter in your inbox.
Stay connected to the news of the day.

Delivery: Daily
Your Email
Since then, Bettina Anderson and Donald Trump Jr. have attended very public events, some at the White House in Washington, D.C., or at Mar-a-Lago, nicknamed the Winter White House or Southern White House because of the amount of time Donald Trump spent there during his first term.

Bettina Anderson has no children and lives in West Palm Beach, Florida. The model (and her family) has been featured several times over the years in her hometown newspaper, the Palm Beach Daily News.


Donald Trump Jr. has five children with ex-wife Vanessa Trump, who is currently dating golf legend Tiger Woods. Both live in Jupiter, Florida, and as of Dec. 16, 2025, property records show Donald Trump Jr. owns a home in the exclusive neighborhood of Admiral's Cove with Kimberly Guilfoyle.

Below are photos of Bettina Anderson, from attending Palm Beach society events in Florida to spending time with her fiance, Donald Trump Jr.

