1

Donald Trump Jr., Bettina Anderson announce engagement after year of dating: ‘The love of my life’
By Samuel Chamberlain
Published Dec. 16, 2025, 6:33 a.m. ET
1/2

The video player is currently playing an ad.
First son Donald Trump Jr. and Bettina Anderson are now fiance and fiancee.

The couple announced their engagement at a White House Christmas reception Monday night, shortly after Page Six broke the news that Don Jr. had proposed to Anderson and she had accepted.

Donald Trump Jr. announced that he and Bettina Anderson are engaged.
3
Donald Trump Jr. announced that he and Bettina Anderson are engaged.
BFA.com / BACKGRID
“Not often that I’m at a loss for words, because we usually do the ranting and raving really well, but this is a little different,” the younger Trump, 47, told the guests after President Trump invited them to say a few words.

In video posted online by far-right activist Laura Loomer, Trump Jr. thanked his betrothed for “that one word: Yes.”

00:00

04:27
Explore More

Nick Reiner 'stormed off' after getting into tiff with comedian Bill Hader at Conan O'Brien's Christmas party

Inside Rob, Nick Reiner's fight at Conan O'Brien's Christmas party that left parents terrified before murders

Grim details reveal Rob Reiner, wife Michele were dead for hours
“This has really been the most unforgettable weekend of my life,” said Anderson, “and I get to marry the love of my life, and I feel just like the luckiest girl in the world.”

This will be Donald Trump Jr.’s second marriage. He and ex-wife Vanessa share five children, led by 18-year-old Kai, who made her LPGA Tour debut last month and will join the women’s golf team at the University of Miami next year.

Following the couple’s divorce in 2018, Don Jr. began dating then-Fox News host Kimberly Guilfoyle. They announced their engagement in 2020, but parted ways last year, shortly before he began dating Anderson, 39.

The engagement was announced at a White House Christmas reception Monday night
3
The engagement was announced at a White House Christmas reception Monday night.
REUTERS
This will be Donald Trump Jr.'s second marriage
3
This will be Donald Trump Jr.’s second marriage.
Vendetta dailly / BACKGRID
The bride-to-be is the daughter of the late Harry Loy Anderson Jr., formerly the youngest bank president in America and a prominent Palm Beach-area philanthropist who passed away in 2013.

Bettina Anderson matriculated at Columbia University, graduating in 2009 with a degree in art history, criticism and conservation.