2

Foreign student enrollment in US down to lowest numbers in a decade
Fall 2025 semester sees 17% decline, representing largest nonpandemic drop in 11 years, in wake of Trump immigration agenda
Gabriel Hays By Gabriel Hays Fox News
Published November 17, 2025 12:14pm EST
Facebook
Twitter
Threads
Flipboard
Comments
Print
Email
Add Fox News on Google
Gesture
Like
👍
❤️
9

Rising number of college freshmen unable to do middle school math, study from UC San Diego reports
‘The Big Weekend Show’ hosts Johnny Jones and Tomi Lahren comment on UC San Diego’s report on rising numbers of college freshmen being unable to solve elementary and middle school math equations.

The number of international students enrolling at U.S. colleges has fallen to its lowest level in more than a decade, according to a new report released Monday.

International student enrollment at U.S. colleges for the fall 2025 semester dropped by 17%, NBCNews.com reported.

That figure represents "the largest nonpandemic decline in the last 11 years," the report said, citing data from the Institute of International Education (IIE).

RUBIO’S STATE DEPARTMENT YANKS MORE THAN 6K STUDENT VISAS DUE TO ASSAULT, BURGLARY, SUPPORT FOR TERRORISM

International students at Harvard graduation
According to a new report, the number of international students enrolling in U.S. schools has seen a sharp decline for the fall 2025 semester. (The Washington Post/Getty)

The drop marks a steeper decline than the previous year, which saw only a 7% decrease in international student enrollment.

About half of the 825 U.S. institutions surveyed by IIE reported declines in enrollment among international students.

Fanta Aw, CEO of international education non-profit NAFSA: Association of International Educators, told NBC that "The U.S. is no longer the central place that students aspire to come to."

HOUSE DEMOCRATS CALL ON RUBIO TO ALLOW INJURED CHILDREN FROM GAZA INTO US FOLLOWING VISA HALT

Harvard protester defending international students
People hold up signs during the Harvard Students for Freedom rally in support of international students at the Harvard University campus in Boston, Massachusetts, on May 27, 2025.  (Rick Friedman/AFP via Getty Images)

The expert pointed to new challenges that prospective students have in obtaining student visas.

The Trump administration paused the scheduling of new visa interviews in May, which NBC reported has caused "long application backlogs" for foreign students seeking to study in the United States.

The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) announced a rule in August limiting the length of time people with student visas could remain in the U.S. to four years. 

A DHS press release said the proposal seeks to curb "visa abuse" and increase the agency's ability to "properly vet and oversee these individuals."

CLICK HERE FOR MORE COVERAGE OF MEDIA AND CULTURE

Dartmouth College campus
A new report indicated that the number of international students enrolling at U.S. colleges declined for the fall 2025 semester. (Bing Guan/Bloomberg via Getty Images)

The agency said foreign students have "taken advantage of U.S. generosity" and become "forever students" by remaining enrolled in colleges so they could stay in the U.S.

Aw said these and other visa challenges have made the U.S. "less competitive" compared to other nations where international students pursue higher education.

According to NAFSA, the 17% drop in enrollment represents about a $1 billion loss to the U.S. economy, as international students contributed $43 billion last year.

CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP

A White House spokesperson defended the Trump administration's policies regarding American colleges, telling Fox News Digital: "President Trump is Making Higher Education Great Again by restoring merit at our publicly-funded colleges and universities and removing woke DEI nonsense. He is simultaneously strengthening our country’s visa programs to put American national security first."

Gabriel Hays is an associate editor for Fox News Digital. 

Related Topics