-2

New Batch Of Epstein Photos Released By House Democrats, Featuring Trump, Clinton, Bill Gates, Woody Allen And More
By Tomas Kassahun • Dec 12, 2025

Share
A protester holds a sign related to the release of the Jeffrey Epstein case files
Photo: SAUL LOEB / AFP via Getty Images
The newest batch of Epstein files released by House Democrats include photos featuring Donald Trump and Bill Clinton, as well as several other high-profile figures.

The House Oversight Committee released the files on Friday, showing 19 photos from the documents and urging Trump to stop covering up the details surrounding Epstein.

“It is time to end this White House cover-up and bring justice to the survivors of Jeffrey Epstein and his powerful friends,” Democrat Robert Garcia said in a statement, per Al Jazeera.

The latest batch of photos from the Epstein estate features Trump, Clinton and more
One of the photos released from the Epstein files showed three women surrounding Trump while his hand was wrapped around the waist of one of the women. The women’s faces are blurred out to protect their identity. Another photo shows Bill Clinton posing with Epstein and his then-girlfriend Ghislaine Maxwell.

The various celebrities seen in the other photos also include Trump’s longtime ally Steve Bannon and Clinton’s former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers, as well as Bill Gates, Woody Allen, entrepreneur Richard Branson and attorney Alan Dershowitz, according to NBC News.

While it’s not clear if the people seen in the photos were involved in any illegal activities, House Democrats are continuing to investigate their association with Epstein.

“These disturbing photos raise even more questions about Epstein and his relationships with some of the most powerful men in the world,” Garcia said, per NBC News. “We will not rest until the American people get the truth. The Department of Justice must release all the files, NOW.”

Trump continues to deny having close ties to Epstein
According to Al Jazeera, Trump said he only knew Epstein because they were neighbors in Palm Beach, Florida. Trump said he eventually kicked him out from his Mar-a-Lago resort because he was a creep.

Trump once again defended himself earlier this year after The Wall Street Journal released a photo of a birthday card that Trump allegedly wrote to Epstein. The card featured a crude drawing of a naked woman and a message that appeared to be written by Trump. He denied knowing anything about the photo or the message.


Share
Stay Updated
Get daily insights on Black culture, entertainment, and community news.

Enter your email
Subscribe Free
*by clicking Subscribe you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy

Trending Now