-2

More Epstein Photos Were Just Released. I’m Not Surprised by Who’s in Them.
It’s Christmas morning for those political reporters who love to buzz around gossip like flies around ... well, never mind.

By Charles P. PiercePublished: Dec 12, 2025 5:58 PM EST
bookmarks
bookmarks
second round of no kings protests sweep the u.s.
Julia Beverly//Getty Images
Estimated read time
9 min read
Out on the Weekend
(Permanent Musical Accompaniment to the Last Post of the Week by the Blog’s Favourite Living Canadian)

The Democrats on the House Oversight Committee have decided—bless their conniving little hearts—to enliven the weekend and the rest of the holiday season by releasing another tranche of documentation from the estate of the late Jeffrey Epstein, a dead friend of the current president. This batch is photos, and there is a whole raft of interesting supporting players. From Politico:

Photos from the estate of Jeffrey Epstein tie the convicted sex offender to President Donald Trump, former President Bill Clinton, tech billionaire Bill Gates and former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers. These men and others are featured in the roughly 95,000 photos the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee has received from the Epstein estate as part of its ongoing investigation. House Democrats publicly released 19 photos Friday morning.
Raw Story has a fairly comprehensive review of the photos, including who is standing with whom and who was standing with whom and how close they were to each other.

Democrats on the House Oversight Committee published the photographs Friday obtained from the disgraced financier’s estate that shows Trump years before he became president standing with six women, whose faces have been redacted, at a party wearing Hawaiian-style leis, while another shows him and Epstein speaking with a woman at an event. A third photo shows Trump sitting next to a woman whose face has been redacted.
Other images show former President Bill Clinton with Epstein’s convicted co-conspirator Ghislaine Maxwell and former British prince Andrew Mountbatten-Windsor standing with Epstein, and billionaire Richard Branson standing with Epstein and another man. Trump ally Steve Bannon appears in multiple images with Epstein, as does film director Woody Allen.
Lord, no. The calendar says December 12, but it’s Christmas morning for those political reporters who love to buzz around gossip like flies around ... well, never mind, it’s Christmastime. And it’s not just for reporters, either.

What to Read Next
Rural America Doesn’t Have Enough Doctors
Rural America Doesn’t Have Enough Doctors
Marco Rubio Has Been Caught in a Lie
Marco Rubio Has Been Caught in a Lie
The Weekend News Reads Like a WWII Dispatch
The Weekend News Reads Like a WWII Dispatch
What Does Chief of Staff Susie Wiles Know?
What Does Chief of Staff Susie Wiles Know?
The EPA Has Been Corrupted by the MAHA Horde
The EPA Has Been Corrupted by the MAHA Horde
Conservative Weirdos Need to Get out of Schools
Conservative Weirdos Need to Get out of Schools
“It is time to end this White House cover-up and bring justice to the survivors of Jeffrey Epstein and his powerful friends,” the Oversight Committee’s top Democrat, Rep. Robert Garcia of California, said in a statement. “These disturbing photos raise even more questions about Epstein and his relationships with some of the most powerful men in the world. We will not rest until the American people get the truth. The Department of Justice must release all the files, NOW.”
So there’s now some tasty sexy-time spice to add to the eggnog at all the parties. If the war with Venezuela starts, I hope there are better photos for the press to use. Of course, photos of bombed-out refugees next to their shacks might be a tough sell next to pictures of famous people hobnobbing with international sex criminals. That’s just journalism, you know.

Regulars here at the shebeen know that every Tuesday at 10:40 a.m. ET I don my mook’s hat and join the gang at the Stephanie Miller electric radio program. When I first began there, one of my welcoming fellow mooks was a guy named Jim Ward, who was a multitalented savant specializing in being a man of a thousand voices. To this day, the memory of his Kim Jong Il (“Kim out!”) cracks me up. We also used to hijack the program by talking about our theories on the JFK assassination. (Neither Jim nor I was a big fan of the Warren Commission.) A few years ago, Jim was diagnosed with early-onset Alzheimer’s disease, and he passed away this week. Fck that fcking disease eternally.

Weekly WWOZ Pick to Click: “Push and Shove” – The Subdudes

Yeah, I still pretty much still love New Orleans. (Added note: The lineup for this year’s JazzFest was released this week. Eagles??????? Nooooooooooo!!!!!!)

Weekly Visit to the Pathé Archives: Here, for obvious reasons, from 1958, is the warm welcome that Vice President Richard Nixon received on a visit to Venezuela. It was the most violent demonstration ever against a U.S. executive official overseas, and I only wish the American voter had consulted with the rioters in 1968 and 1972.

Ever since he began his Senate career by writing an unsolicited letter to the leaders of Iran for the purpose of undermining President Obama’s attempts to negotiating the mullahs out of building nuclear weapons, Senator Tom Cotton, the bobble-throated slap-dick from Arkansas, has been on the shebeen’s radar as a big shiny blip. He has since turned into the most bloodthirsty senator since John C. Calhoun. Last weekend, he appeared on Meet the Press and let his freak flag fly. The topic was the murder spree the administration has embarked upon across the Spanish Main.

KRISTEN WELKER: Thank you so much for being here after a very big week. I want to ask you about our new reporting. NBC News is reporting this morning that Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, his order was to kill all 11 individuals on that boat because they were on a list of narco-terrorists who intelligence and military officials determined could be legally targeted. Was Secretary Hegseth’s order to kill everyone on the boat because they were on this target list, Senator?
SEN. TOM COTTON: The order, like the entire operation, Kristen, is to destroy these drug boats, which are running drugs into our country from foreign drug cartels and traffickers that are killing hundreds of Arkansans every year and hundreds of thousands of Americans. You know, of course before our military conducts such a strike, they have multiple sources of intelligence. They give high confidence that everyone on that boat is a foreign drug trafficker, not an innocent civilian who’s being human trafficked for instance. And therefore, Secretary Hegseth said, and I agree, they’re all valid targets. Now this controversy, let’s remember, all started with a Washington Post story about nine days ago that said after the first strike, there were two survivors that were helpless. And then they were ordered to kill these helpless survivors. That is simply not the case. They were not floating in the ocean on a wooden plank or in life jackets. They were on a capsized vessel. They were not incapacitated in any way. It was entirely appropriate to strike the boat again to make sure that its cargo was destroyed. It is in no way a violation of the law of war. And I think the Washington Post owes Secretary Hegseth and especially Admiral Mitch Bradley, a highly decorated career Navy SEAL, an apology for that slander.
KRISTEN WELKER: Let me ask you about the aftermath of that first strike. The Pentagon’s Law of War Manual, which you’re familiar with having served in Iraq and Afghanistan, says, quote, “Orders to fire upon the shipwrecked would be clearly illegal.” Given that, how was that follow-on strike of two survivors legal, Senator?
SEN. TOM COTTON: Well, again, Kristen, they were not incapacitated. They were not in the water surviving only because they had a life jacket or hanging to a plank of wood. They were sitting on that boat. They were clearly moving around on it. That is in contrast, for instance, to another strike that Secretary Hegseth described just yesterday in October in which you had two survivors who were in that state. They were essentially just dog-paddling in the water. And what happened on that strike, a U.S. vessel went and picked those survivors up and took them back to their home country. That’s just an example of how our military makes these decisions based on the facts and circumstances of each particular case consistent with laws and with the directive you just stated.
KRISTEN WELKER: I hear you saying they weren’t incapacitated. And yet Democratic Congressman Adam Smith of Washington, the ranking member in the House Armed Services committee, saw this very differently. He saw that video. He said, quote, “It looks like two classically shipwrecked people.” Other lawmakers who saw the video said, “The two men appeared to raise their arms potentially to signal that they were trying to surrender.” Senator, why did Admiral Bradley interpret those actions as anything other than these two men trying to seek help and survive?
SEN. TOM COTTON: Well, again, they were sitting or standing on top of a capsized boat. They weren’t floating helplessly in the water. And Kristen, I don’t think it matters all that much what they were trying to do. They looked at one point like they were trying to flip the boat back over presumably to rescue its cargo and continue their mission. ... Maybe they were signaling to other airplanes or drug cartel boats because they’re in waters that are just off drug cartel areas. At one point the guy takes off his T-shirt. Maybe he’s trying to get a suntan. It doesn’t really matter what they were trying to do.
Oh, Jesus, they were signaling another boat? On the basis of visual evidence, Cotton makes the Gulf of Tonkin incident look like the battle of Gettysburg. If you’re looking for an heir to the MAGA on pure craziness, don’t sleep on this guy.

Discovery Corner: Hey, look at what we found! From Archaeology News Online:

In waters off the coast of Brittany, archaeologists have identified an impressive set of submerged stone structures that reveal the presence of a remarkably sophisticated coastal society more than 7,000 years ago. The findings, which were made near the Île de Sein in western France, include a massive granite wall and at least a dozen smaller constructions now located several meters beneath the surface.
I’ll be back on Monday for whatever fresh hell awaits. Be well and play nice, ya bastids. Stay above the snake-line and wear the damn masks, and take the damn shots, especially the boosters and the New One. In your spare time, spare a thought for the victims of the flooding in Washington, and of Hurricane Melissa in Jamaica, and of the unspeakable violence in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and for everyone touched by the mass shootings in Michigan, North Carolina, Colorado, Minneapolis, N.Y.C., and Reno, the victims of the Manchester synagogue attack, and everyone recovering from the flooding in Charleston, and in the Roanoke Valley, and in Wisconsin, and in Texas, and in North Carolina, and by earthquakes in Myanmar and Thailand, and in Turkey and Russia, and by the tornadoes throughout the Southeast, and for everyone touched by floods in Kentucky and in West Virginia, and Nigeria, and by the crash in Washington, and by the measles outbreak in the Southwest, and in the wildfire zone around Dallas, and in the fire zones in Napa, and in Las Vegas, Nashville, and Queens, who who were visited by the Crazy before the year had hardly begun, and the folks in Dallas and Tallahassee, and in Stockton, who were visited by the Crazy this week. And the people in drought-stricken north Alabama. And the victims of Tropical Storm Melissa in Haiti. And the folks caught in floods and tornadoes in Nebraska, and in Missouri. And the folks caught in “historic floods” in Kentucky. And in Oklahoma. And the folks in L.A., now fighting floods and mudslides exacerbated by the recent wildfires. And the folks in the wildfire zones in Pennsylvania, and in Minnesota. And the folks in Lahaina, who are still rebuilding. And the victims of the nightclub collapse in the Dominican Republic. And especially for our fellow citizens in the LGBTQ+ community, who deserve so much better from their country than they’ve been getting. And for all of us, who will be getting exactly what we deserve. Thank you for your attention to this matter.

This content is imported from OpenWeb. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

Conversation62 Comments


Sort by 

Best

tom4540
12 December, 2025

Charlie,

The released Epstein photos are just the tip of the iceberg, and every Republican operative knows that, and is quaking in his shoes. I think the Indiana Republican State Senators suspect Trump is all over these files and that is one reason they rebuffed him on the redistricting.

Tom Cannon

As...

See more

Reply

27


