2

House Democrats release photos of Trump, Clinton and Andrew from Epstein’s estate
The 19 photos released by Democratic lawmakers on the House Oversight Committee were a small part of more than 95,000 they received from the estate of Epstein

Author of the article:Associated Press
Associated Press
Stephen Groves
Published Dec 12, 2025  •  Last updated 3 days ago  •  4 minute read
16 Comments

This undated photo from the personal collection of Jeffrey Epstein provided by the Democrats on the House Oversight Committee on Dec. 12, 2025, shows former president Bill Clinton (centre) posing with Epstein (right) and Ghislaine Maxwell (second from right).
This undated photo from the personal collection of Jeffrey Epstein provided by the Democrats on the House Oversight Committee on Dec. 12, 2025, shows former president Bill Clinton (centre) posing with Epstein (right) and Ghislaine Maxwell (second from right). Photo by HANDOUT / House Oversight Democrats /AFP via Getty Images
Article content
WASHINGTON — House Democrats released a selection of photos from the estate of Jeffrey Epstein on Friday, including some of Donald Trump, Bill Clinton and the former Prince Andrew. 

Article content
The dozens of photos initially released by Democratic lawmakers on the House Oversight Committee were a small part of more than 95,000 they received from the estate of Epstein, who died in a New York jail cell in 2019 while awaiting trial on sex trafficking charges. The photos released Friday were separate from the case files that the Department of Justice is now under compulsion to release, but anticipation is growing as the Trump administration faces a deadline next week to produce the Epstein files that have been the source of conspiracy theories and speculation for years. 

Article content
Article content
The photos were released without captions or context and included a black-and-white image of Trump alongside six women whose faces were blacked out. 

The president said he hadn’t seen the photos from Epstein’s estate released Friday, but they were “no big deal.” 

Trump said Epstein was “all over Palm Beach” and had “photos with everybody.” 

Rep. Robert Garcia, the top Democrat on the House Oversight Committee, did not say whether any of the women in the photos was a victim of abuse, but he added, “Our commitment from day one has been to redact any photo, any information that could lead to any sort of harm to any of the victims.” 

Article content
Article content

White House spokesperson Abigail Jackson accused Democrats of “selectively releasing cherry-picked photos with random redactions to try and create a false narrative” and called it part of a “Democrat hoax against President Trump.” 

Many of the photos have already circulated in the public. Democrats pledged to continue to release photos in the days and weeks ahead, as they look to pressure Trump over his Republican administration’s earlier refusal to release documents in the Epstein probe. Garcia said his staff had looked through about a quarter of the images it had received from Epstein’s estate, which included photos that were sent to him or that he had in his

This undated photo from the personal collection of Jeffrey Epstein provided by the Democrats on the House Oversight Committee on Dec. 12, 2025, shows British Virgin Group founder and billionaire Richard Branson (right) with Epstein (centre) and another man.
This undated photo from the personal collection of Jeffrey Epstein provided by the Democrats on the House Oversight Committee on Dec. 12, 2025, shows British Virgin Group founder and billionaire Richard Branson (right) with Epstein (centre) and another man. Photo by HANDOUT / House Oversight Democrats /AFP via Getty Images
“Donald Trump right now needs to release the files to the American public so that the truth can come out and we can actually get some sense of justice for the survivors,” Garcia added. 

Article content
He initially released 19 photos Friday morning, then roughly 70 more photos later Friday, including one of Epstein taking a bath, a photo of him with a swollen lip, photos of his home and a photo of him posing with a book about the scandal. 

This undated photo from the personal collection of Jeffrey Epstein provided by the Democrats on the House Oversight Committee on Dec. 12, 2025, shows former Trump adviser Steve Bannon (left) speaking with Epstein.
This undated photo from the personal collection of Jeffrey Epstein provided by the Democrats on the House Oversight Committee on Dec. 12, 2025, shows former Trump adviser Steve Bannon (left) speaking with Epstein. Photo by HANDOUT / House Oversight Democrats /AFP via Getty Images
Trump, once a close friend of Epstein, has said he parted ways with him long before he faced the sex trafficking charges. Clinton, too, has minimized his relationship with Epstein, acknowledging that he traveled on Epstein’s private jet but saying through a spokesperson that he had no knowledge of the late financier’s crimes. Clinton also has never been accused of misconduct by Epstein’s known victims. However, Republicans on the House committee are pushing him and Hillary Clinton to testify in their investigation. 

Article content
  

Rep. James Comer, the GOP chair of the House Oversight Committee, threatened late Friday to begin contempt of Congress proceedings against the Clintons if they don’t appear next week or reschedule depositions in January. 

A spokesperson for the Republican-controlled committee also said that nothing in the documents the committee has received shows “any wrongdoing” by Trump. 

Andrew lost his royal titles and privileges this year amid new revelations of his ties to Epstein, though he has denied wrongdoing. 

The photo release also included images of the right-wing political operative Steve Bannon, billionaires Richard Branson and Bill Gates, filmmaker Woody Allen, former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers and law professor Alan Dershowitz. The men have denied any wrongdoing in their associations with Epstein, who kept many high-profile figures in his circle of friends. 

Article content
This undated photo from the personal collection of Jeffrey Epstein provided by the Democrats on the House Oversight Committee on Dec. 12, 2025, shows actor and director Woody Allen (right) and Epstein talking with another woman whose face has been redacted.
This undated photo from the personal collection of Jeffrey Epstein provided by the Democrats on the House Oversight Committee on Dec. 12, 2025, shows actor and director Woody Allen (right) and Epstein talking with another woman whose face has been redacted. Photo by HANDOUT / House Oversight Democrats /AFP via Getty Images
Amid an earlier release of emails between Summers and Epstein, Summers stepped away from his teaching position at Harvard University and faced other fallout to his standing in academic circles. 

Allen has faced allegations from his adopted daughter, Dylan Farrow, of molesting her as a child. He has denied the allegations. 

Some lawmakers, however, believe that other high-powered figures could be implicated in Epstein’s abuse if the full case files from the Justice Department are released. 

Rep. Thomas Massie, a Kentucky Republican who was instrumental in passing a bill to require the public release of the files, said it was a good sign that the Department of Justice has sought to have grand jury material released from several courts. 

“The grand jury material is just a small fraction of what the DOJ needs to release, because the FBI and DOJ probably has evidence that they chose not to take to the grand jury because the evidence they’re in possession of would implicate other people, not Epstein or Maxwell,” he said.

