1

Donald Trump says House Republicans should vote to release Epstein files in major U-turn
President Donald Trump, who has previously called the release of documents related to Jeffrey Epstein a "hoax", has now said he supports House Republicans voting for the release
Comments
1
News
Anthony Orrico News Reporter and Gareth Bicknell Overnight Reporter
03:49, 17 Nov 2025
Updated 05:50, 17 Nov 2025

US President Donald Trump
View 3 Images
President Trump has performed a U-turn(Image: Getty)
President Donald Trump declared on Sunday night via social media that he is in favour of House Republicans voting to release the Epstein files.

In a major U-turn, he said House Republicans should vote to release all Department of Justice documents concerning the sex trafficking case involving Jeffrey Epstein - having previously branded attempts to publish them as "a hoax".

"We have nothing to hide, and it's time to move on from this Democrat Hoax perpetrated by Radical Left Lunatics in order to deflect from the Great Success of the Republican Party," Trump posted on Truth Social moments after touching down at Joint Base Andrews following a weekend in Florida.


President Donald Trump 
View 3 Images
President Trump posted on Truth Social(Image: AFP via Getty Images)
Two brave Bondi heroes pictured trying to disarm alleged terrorist before losing their lives

Man cut in half shares horrifying details about life-changing injuries

He wrote: "The House Oversight Committee can have whatever they are legally entitled to, I DON'T CARE!"

Trump then listed his signature issues on the economy, immigration, foreign policy and culture war issues rather than discussing Epstein.

Get the latest Daily Star breaking news on WhatsApp
Our community members are treated to special offers, promotions and adverts from us and our partners. You can check out at any time. More info

Join us on WhatsApp
He added: "Some 'members' of the Republican Party are being 'used,' and we can't let that happen. Let's start talking about the Republican Party's Record Setting Achievements, and not fall into the Epstein 'TRAP,' which is actually a curse on the Democrats, not us. MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!'"

Democrats and some Republicans have been championing a proposal that would compel the Justice Department to publish additional case documents.


Trump with Jeffrey Epstein
View 3 Images
Trump with Jeffrey Epstein(Image: Internet Unknown)
The president's reversal represents a tacit recognition that the proposal will have sufficient votes to secure passage through the House, though its prospects in the Senate remain uncertain.

Republican Representative Thomas Massie, a co-sponsor of the bill, said in an interview with ABC News on Sunday that as many as 100 Republicans could vote in favour.

Known as the Epstein Files Transparency Act, the aim of the bill is to make the justice department release all unclassified records, documents, communications, and investigative materials linked to Jeffrey Epstein.

Earlier on Sunday, it was reported that President Trump allegedly told his friends that he was "banging" his 28 year old White House assistant. Michael Wolff, who has penned several articles and books on Trump, had made the allegation during a draft of part of a book that was shared with disgraced Epstein over an email from 2019.

In the email, Wolff names the assistant as Madeleine Westerhout. Westerhout deemed the claims in Wolff's email as "absurd" and "unhinged from reality", as reported by the Mirror.

The email has been released as part of the bombshell 23,000 documents of correspondence handed to Congress by Epstein's estate.