1

Trump says House Republicans should vote to release Epstein files in stunning reversal: ‘Nothing to hide’
By Zoe Hussain and Samuel Chamberlain
Published Nov. 16, 2025
Updated Nov. 17, 2025, 6:41 a.m. ET
1/2

The video player is currently playing an ad.
President Trump said Sunday that House Republicans should vote to release any and all files related to late pedophile Jeffrey Epstein — after previously trying to dissuade the GOP from backing a measure that would force just that outcome. 

“House Republicans should vote to release the Epstein files, because we have nothing to hide, and it’s time to move on from this Democrat Hoax perpetrated by Radical Left Lunatics in order to deflect from the Great Success of the Republican Party,” Trump wrote on Truth Social on Sunday evening.

The House is expected to vote Tuesday on legislation that would compel the Justice Department to make public all materials related to the notorious case. The vote will happen despite the opposition of GOP leadership after a so-called “discharge petition” received the required 218 votes last week.

The legislation must also pass the Senate and be signed by Trump himself.

The president gave no indication Sunday night whether he would instruct Senate Republicans to approve the bill or whether he would sign it.

00:00

04:27
The discharge petition was signed by all 214 House Democrats, along with Reps. Thomas Massie (R-Ky.), Nancy Mace (R-SC), Lauren Boebert (R-Colo.) and Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-Ga.) — much to Trump’s ire. 

Donald Trump speaking to reporters in front of Air Force One at night.
President Trump speaks to reporters before boarding Air Force One at Palm Beach International Airport in West Palm Beach, Fla., on his way back to the White House.
AP
Explore More
In this photo illustration, a phone shows U.S. President Donald Trump's Truth Social post on the death of actor and director Rob Reiner on December 15, 2025 in Washington, DC.
Trump’s classless Rob Reiner rant: Letters to the Editor — Dec. 17, 2025

Trump adding 5 new countries to travel ban – imposes restrictions on 15 others
An image collage containing 3 images, Image 1 shows Donald Trump showing an interior rendering of the new White House Ballroom to Mark Rutte, Image 2 shows Donald Trump gestures behind him to where the new ballroom will be during an event on foster care in the East Room of the White House, Image 3 shows Aerial view of the White House with ongoing demolition and construction work for a new ballroom
Judge rejects emergency bid to block Trump’s White House ballroom after Secret Service cites security 
On Wednesday last week, the House Oversight Committee released more than 20,000 pages of documents provided by Epstein’s estate.

In the emails, Epstein — who was found dead on Aug. 10, 2019, in his Manhattan jail cell while awaiting trial on federal sex trafficking charges — insisted that Trump was fully aware of his practice of grooming and sexually abusing girls as young as 14.

“[O]f course he knew about the girls as he asked [G]hislaine to stop,” Epstein told discredited author Michael Wolff in a Jan. 31, 2019, email — referring to his accomplice Ghislaine Maxwell’s practice of recruiting victims from the spa at Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort.

The following day, Epstein wrote in an email to himself that while “Trump knew of it. and came to my house many times during that period,” the future commander-in-chief “never got a massage.”

Trump and Epstein enjoyed a close friendship in the 1990s and early part of the 2000s, before reportedly falling out amid a bidding war over the purchase of a since-demolished Palm Beach, Fla., mansion.

The president announced Friday that he would ask the Department of Justice and FBI to investigate the financier’s “involvement and relationship with Bill Clinton, Larry Summers, Reid Hoffman, J.P. Morgan, Chase, and many other people and institutions, to determine what was going on with them, and him.”

Attorney General Pam Bondi later confirmed that she had asked Manhattan US Attorney Jay Clayton to take the lead in that probe.

“[T]he House Oversight Committee can have whatever they are legally entitled to, I DON’T CARE!” Trump reiterated in his Sunday post. “All I do care about is that Republicans get BACK ON POINT.”

“Nobody cared about Jeffrey Epstein when he was alive and, if the Democrats had anything, they would have released it before our Landslide Election Victory. Some ‘members’ of the Republican Party are being ‘used,’ and we can’t let that happen,” he added.

“Let’s start talking about the Republican Party’s Record Setting Achievements, and not fall into the Epstein ‘TRAP,’ which is actually a curse on the Democrats, not us. MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!”

With Post wires

Filed under donald trump  house oversight committee  jeffrey epstein  republicans  us house of representatives  11/16/25
Read Next
Bigwig on Mamdani's transition team railed against Jews, q...
SPONSORED STORIES