0

US President Trump now supports the release of Epstein files.
November 17, 2025November 17, 2025
US President Trump is suddenly demanding the release of the Epstein files – a change of course under mounting pressure. Critics suspect a calculated move, while Republicans and Democrats are pushing for a swift vote.

https://p.dw.com/p/53jeJ
US President Donald Trump at a press conference on Air Force One
US President changes course: He recommends that his Republicans vote to release the Epstein files.Image: Andrew Harnik/Getty Images
Under intense pressure, US President Donald Trump is now urging members of his Republican party to vote in the House of Representatives to release the investigative files in the Jeffrey Epstein case. It is time to release the documents, "because we have nothing to hide," the Republican wrote on his platform Truth Social.

Until now, Trump had blocked a vote on releasing the documents. Critics accuse the president of trying to cover up his own possible involvement in the Epstein affair. Trump denies any wrongdoing. Democrats and several Republican lawmakers have been pushing for disclosure for months.

A truck with a large picture of Donald Trump and Jeffrey Epstein on the sideA truck with a large picture of Donald Trump and Jeffrey Epstein on the side
Activists put up posters with pictures of US President Trump (right) and sex offender Jeffrey Epstein during Trump's state visit to Great Britain in September.Image: Phil Noble/REUTERS
The political pressure on Trump increased noticeably over the weekend. A vote in Congress is scheduled for this week, but the exact date is still pending.

Photos and videos show Trump with Epstein
The influential multimillionaire Epstein ran a sex trafficking ring for years, claiming dozens of young women and minors as victims. He himself abused numerous victims. After his initial conviction, the case was later reopened, and Epstein was arrested. In 2019, the 66-year-old died in his prison cell. The autopsy report listed suicide as the cause of death.

Epstein files: What Trump voters in Ohio are saying

03:37
Epstein's death and his extensive connections to the US elite fueled speculation about the possible involvement of influential figures. Celebrities and billionaires were frequent visitors to his home. Trump, too, demonstrably spent time with Epstein, as several party videos show.


Threatening embarrassment for Trump
US media reported over the weekend that support for opening the files is growing in the House of Representatives. Although Republicans hold a majority there, some representatives close to Trump have opposed the president and joined forces with Democrats to support the measure. Attempts by the administration to persuade Republican representatives to change their minds have reportedly been unsuccessful – a looming embarrassment for Trump.

Marjorie Taylor Greene, wearing a MAGA movement cap, claps and laughs.Marjorie Taylor Greene, wearing a MAGA movement cap, claps and laughs.
Fallen from grace: Marjorie Taylor Greene, previously one of Trump's biggest supporters, is now demanding the release of the Epstein files (archive image)Image: Allison Robbert/AFP
The internal conflict within the Republican Party had recently intensified. Trump even broke with his longtime supporter Marjorie Taylor Greene, one of the most prominent figures in Trump's MAGA movement ("Make America Great Again"), because she clearly advocated for the release of the documents.

New emails implicate Trump
Should the House of Representatives approve, two further steps are required: The Senate—the second chamber of the US Congress—must also give its approval. While Republicans hold a majority there as well, media reports indicate the project could face significant resistance. Following this, Trump himself would have to sign a directive instructing the Justice Department to release the investigative files.

During his election campaign, Trump promised full disclosure of the Epstein files. However, since taking office in January, this promise has remained unfulfilled, increasing the pressure on him. Most recently, Democrats released excerpts of emails from Epstein's estate in which Trump's name appears, once again raising the question of how much he might have known about Epstein's crimes.

Epstein wrote, for example, that Trump "knew about the girls" and spent "hours" with abuse victim Virginia Giuffre. Furthermore, numerous videos and photos show the two men together.

Trump is having Bill Clinton investigated
"Some 'members' of the Republican Party are being 'exploited,' and we cannot allow that," Trump wrote on Truth Social. He called the Epstein affair a "trap" set up by Democrats to distract from the "great success" of his Republicans. Trump also instructed his Attorney General to launch investigations into former Democratic President Bill Clinton, as well as other individuals and companies, to examine possible connections to Epstein.

Bill Clinton and Donald Trump laugh for the cameras at a golf tournament in 2009Bill Clinton and Donald Trump laugh for the cameras at a golf tournament in 2009
US President Trump (left) and former President Bill Clinton at a golf tournament in 2009 - now Trump is investigating his predecessor.Image: Ted Shaffrey/AP Photo/picture alliance
The Washington Post reported on concerns from legal experts that Trump might be trying to use his new investigations to give the Justice Department a pretext for ultimately not having to open all of the Epstein documents.

pgr/haz (dpa, afp, rtr)