0

Trump Now Says Republicans Should Vote To Release Epstein Files: ‘I Don’t Care’
BySiladitya Ray,Forbes Staff. Siladitya Ray is a New Delhi-based Forbes news team reporter.


Follow Author
Nov 17, 2025, 12:31am ESTNov 17, 2025, 03:42am EST



0

Topline
President Donald Trump on Sunday night said House Republicans should vote to release the government’s files on convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein, marking a shift in tone after the president repeatedly dismissed the issue, claiming it was a “hoax” perpetrated by Democrats, and publicly attacked Republican lawmakers pushing for their release.

President Trump Returns To Washington From Florida On Sunday
President Donald Trump speaks to reporters before boarding Air Force One at Palm Beach International Airport in West Palm Beach, Florida.
Getty Images
Key Facts
In a post on Truth Social, Trump wrote: “House Republicans should vote to release the Epstein files, because we have nothing to hide.”

Reiterating his “hoax” claims, Trump added: “It’s time to move on from this Democrat Hoax perpetrated by Radical Left Lunatics in order to deflect from the Great Success of the Republican Party, including our recent Victory on the Democrat ‘Shutdown.’”

The president said the Justice Department is looking at “various Democrat operatives (Bill Clinton, Reid Hoffman, Larry Summers, etc.) and their relationship to Epstein,” and the House Oversight Committee can have access to “whatever they are legally entitled to, I DON’T CARE!”

Trump wrote: “Nobody cared about Jeffrey Epstein when he was alive and, if the Democrats had anything, they would have released it before our Landslide Election Victory.”

symbol
00:04

03:12
Read More
Tangent
The Epstein files issue has triggered fissures in the MAGA movement and several Republican lawmakers have publicly broken with Trump on the matter, triggering the president’s ire. Trump’s post took a swipe at these GOP leaders, saying: “Some ‘members’ of the Republican Party are being ‘used,’ and we can’t let that happen. Let’s start talking about the Republican Party’s Record Setting Achievements, and not fall into the Epstein ‘TRAP,’ which is actually a curse on the Democrats, not us.”

What Did Trump Say About Marjorie Taylor Greene?
One of the most significant fallout effects of the MAGA fissure has been the public breakdown in Trump’s relationship with Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, R-Ga., who used to be one of the president’s staunchest allies in Congress. Despite shifting his tone on the Epstein files, the president did not relent in his attacks against Greene, and said in a separate post; “Wacky Marjorie ‘Traitor’ Brown (Remember, Green turns to Brown where there is ROT involved!) is working overtime to try and portray herself as a victim when, in actuality, she is the cause of all of her own problems. The fact is, nobody cares about this Traitor to our Country!”

Key Background
Greene and three other Republicans—Reps. Thomas Massie, R-Ky., Nancy Mace, R-S.C., and Lauren Boebert, R-Colo., voted in favor of a discharge petition to move forward legislation to release the Epstein documents. All 214 House Democrats, including the recently sworn-in Rep. Adelita Grijalva, D-Ariz., have also voted in favor of the discharge petition, giving it the 218 votes necessary to move forward. The White House reportedly tried to pressure Boebert and Mace to withdraw their support for the petition, with the Colorado Congresswoman even being summoned to the White House Situation Room. Massie and Greene, on the other hand, have been targeted directly by Trump’s social media attacks. Trump attacked Greene on Friday, calling her “wacky” and calling for her to be primaried, saying: “If the right person runs, they will have my Complete and Unyielding Support.” He also referred to her as a “Traitor” and a “disgrace to our GREAT REPUBLICAN PARTY.” The president has also been calling for someone to run against Massie, and recently mocked the Kentucky congressman’s second marriage, following the death of his first wife of 30 years.