3

President Trump DEMANDS House Republicans Vote to RELEASE Epstein Files — Warns Republicans Not to Fall for Democrat “Trap” Designed to Distract From His Record-Setting Achievements
by Jim Hᴏft Nov. 17, 2025 7:30 am
TruthTweetShareGettrGab
Donald Trump speaking at a podium during a public event, gesturing with his hand and wearing a suit and tie.
“Donald Trump” by Gage Skidmore, CC BY-SA 2.0
President Donald Trump is done playing defense, and on Sunday, he unleashed a blistering statement demanding that House Republicans immediately vote to release the Epstein files, blasting Democrats for weaponizing the scandal as a distraction from his administration’s historic achievements.

Back in July, a new report released by the FBI and DOJ under Patel and Bongino boldly claims there is no evidence that Epstein blackmailed elites or maintained a “client list” of global power brokers connected to his child sex trafficking operation. It also parrots the long-disputed conclusion that Epstein died by suicide in his jail cell in 2019.

Conservative voices immediately erupted in disbelief, accusing the bureau of once again running cover for the elites and scrubbing the truth from public view.

Meanwhile, Democrats seized the moment to weaponize the scandal, suddenly insisting on releasing the Epstein files after years of blocking their disclosure to the public.

The Gateway Pundit reported last week that the Democrat Party suffered an epic humiliation after social media users caught them making up a lie about President Trump and Jeffrey Epstein that was so embarrassing.

On Wednesday, the Democrats’ Committee on Oversight released a so-called “tranche of correspondence” from the Epstein Estate, claiming to “strike a blow against the White House’s Epstein cover-up.” The three unrelated emails span the dates from 2011 to 2019.

Democrats redacted the name of a victim who publicly exonerated President Trump, even though the Epstein Estate itself did not redact her name.

In response to the release, White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt told FOX News Digital, “The Democrats selectively leaked emails to the liberal media to create a fake narrative to smear President Trump.”

In a fiery statement on Truth Social, Trump blasted Democrats and their media allies for what he calls a desperate, last-ditch effort to distract from the GOP’s growing momentum nationwide.

Trump reminded Americans that the real Epstein connections run straight through the Democratic Party, and he wants every last file released to prove it.

Trump wrote:

As I said on Friday night aboard Air Force One to the Fake News Media, House Republicans should vote to release the Epstein files, because we have nothing to hide, and it’s time to move on from this Democrat Hoax perpetrated by Radical Left Lunatics in order to deflect from the Great Success of the Republican Party, including our recent Victory on the Democrat “Shutdown.”

The Department of Justice has already turned over tens of thousands of pages to the Public on “Epstein,” are looking at various Democrat operatives (Bill Clinton, Reid Hoffman, Larry Summers, etc.) and their relationship to Epstein, and the House Oversight Committee can have whatever they are legally entitled to, I DON’T CARE!

All I do care about is that Republicans get BACK ON POINT, which is the Economy, “Affordability” (where we are winning BIG!), our Victory on reducing Inflation from the highest level in History to practically nothing, bringing down prices for the American People, delivering Historic Tax Cuts, gaining Trillions of Dollars of Investment into America (A RECORD!), the rebuilding of our Military, securing our Border, deporting Criminal Illegal Aliens, ending Men in Women’s Sports, stopping Transgender for Everyone, and so much more!

Nobody cared about Jeffrey Epstein when he was alive and, if the Democrats had anything, they would have released it before our Landslide Election Victory.

Some “members” of the Republican Party are being “used,” and we can’t let that happen. Let’s start talking about the Republican Party’s Record Setting Achievements, and not fall into the Epstein “TRAP,” which is actually a curse on the Democrats, not us. MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!

The announcement came after Trump announced on Truth Social last week that he would be ordering Pam Bondi to investigate Epstein’s relationship with Bill Clinton, Larry Summers, Reid Hoffman, J.P. Morgan, Chase, and many other people and institutions to determine their involvement.

“Now that the Democrats are using the Epstein Hoax, involving Democrats, not Republicans, to try and deflect from their disastrous SHUTDOWN, and all of their other failures I will be asking A.G. Pam Bondi, and the Department of Justice, together with our great patriots at the FBI, to investigate Jeffrey Epstein’s involvement and relationship with Bill Clinton, Larry Summers, Reid Hoffman, J.P. Morgan, Chase, and many other people and institutions, to determine what was going on with them, and him, “Trump wrote.

“This is another Russia, Russia, Russia Scam, with all arrows pointing to the Democrats. Records show that these men, and many others, spent large portions of their life with Epstein, and on his “Island.” Stay tuned!!!”