-2

Bowing and scraping': Kristi Noem mocked after suggesting Trump controls weather
'Bowing and scraping': Kristi Noem mocked after suggesting Trump controls weather
U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem speaks during a cabinet meeting with U.S. President Donald Trump, at the White House in Washington, D.C., U.S., December 2, 2025. REUTERS/Brian Snyder
Carl GibsonDecember 02, 2025 | 04:14PM ETFrontpage news and politics
BeLoud Share
Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem made an eyebrow-raising comment about President Donald Trump during a recent meeting of the Trump administration's Cabinet.

While in the middle of her remarks at the meeting, Noem observed that no hurricanes had made landfall in the U.S. during the 2025 hurricane season, which typically lasts from June through November. Her comment was met with laughter from the assembled Cabinet members.

"Sir, you made it through the hurricane season without a hurricane — you kept the hurricanes away. We appreciate that," Noem said.

The Homeland Security secretary's praise of Trump was immediately met with ridicule from various elected officials, journalists and commentators. Rep. Jared Huffman (D-Calif.), took a sarcastic tone while also being disgusted at Noem's display.

"Thank you, Oh Great One, for keeping the hurricanes away," Huffman tweeted. "The bowing and scraping hits new lows every day with these sycophants."

"God this is so embarrassing," Rep. Yassamin Ansari (D-Ariz.) wrote on her official X account.

Attorey and progressive influencer Aaron Parnas tweeted: "This is an SNL skit right?"

California Gov. Gavin Newsom (D) also weighed in on both of his X accounts. On his personal account, the presumptive 2028 Democratic presidential candidate wrote: "ICYMI [in case you missed it] Trump controls the weather." The "Gavin Newsom Press Office" account — which the California Democrat typically uses to mock the administration — posted a doctored image of Trump's famous gaffe in which he used a sharpie to expand the scope of Hurricane Dorian in 2019 to include Alabama. The new image included text Newsom inserted that read "NO hurricanes allowed!"

"It was his magical sharpie, wasn't it Kristi?" Newsom's press office tweeted.

Democrats on the House Homeland Security Committee also piled on, posting an image of North Korean news anchor Ri Chun Hee with the text: "Glorious Supreme Leader has kept the hurricanes away. His power over the weather is unmatched."