-1

Kristi Noem calls for new travel ban following National Guard shooting
The homeland security secretary said Monday night on X that she had just met with Trump, who later reposted her statement about new travel restrictions.
By Zoë Richards | NBC News • Published December 2, 2025 • Updated on December 2, 2025 at 12:25 pm
Log in or create a free profile to save articlesBOOKMARKER

Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem said Monday she is recommending a "full travel ban" from countries that are "flooding our nation with killers, leeches, and entitlement junkies."

"I just met with the President. I am recommending a full travel ban on every damn country that’s been flooding our nation with killers, leeches, and entitlement junkies," Noem wrote on X.

Watch NBC6 free wherever you are

Watch button  WATCH HERE
"Our forefathers built this nation on blood, sweat, and the unyielding love of freedom — not for foreign invaders to slaughter our heroes, suck dry our hard-earned tax dollars, or snatch the benefits owed to AMERICANS.WE DON’T WANT THEM. NOT ONE," she added.

A source familiar with the travel ban announced by Secretary Noem says approximately 30 countries are on the list of nations included in the proposed travel ban and the list could expand.

A spokesperson for DHS said, “We will be announcing the list soon.”

The first version of the travel ban under the first Trump administration banned people from seven countries from entry.

President Donald Trump shared her X post on Truth Social but did not comment on it.

Trump has intensified his administration's crackdown on immigration in the wake of last week's shooting of two National Guard members on patrol in Washington, D.C., that left one Guard member dead and another in critical condition.


Nov 30
Noem says National Guard shooting suspect was ‘radicalized' in the U.S.

Dec 1
National Guard member shot in D.C. has shown positive signs, West Virginia governor says
The Department of Homeland Security identified the suspect in the attack as an Afghan national who entered the United States legally in September 2021 after the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan.

"We must now reexamine every single alien who has entered our country from Afghanistan under Biden, and we must take all necessary measures to ensure the removal of any alien from any country who does not belong here or add benefit to our country," Trump said in remarks hours after the shooting.

The following day, Trump said he planned to “permanently pause” all immigration from what he described as “third world countries.”

The proposed travel ban is the latest in the Trump administration's efforts to restrict immigration to the United States.

Trump in June signed a proclamation banning nationals from 12 countries — including Afghanistan, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen — from entering the U.S.

In October, the administration drastically reduced the annual refugee admissions cap to 7,500 — the lowest on record. The admissions numbers would be "primarily be allocated" to white South Africans, according to a Federal Register memo.