0

Trump Administration’s Travel Ban Will Increase To 30 Countries After National Guard Shooting
ByAntonio Pequeño IV,Forbes Staff. Pequeño is a breaking news reporter who covers tech and more.


Follow Author
Dec 02, 2025, 01:07pm ESTDec 02, 2025, 02:29pm EST



0

Topline
The Trump administration will expand its travel ban to around 30 countries after an Afghan man shot two National Guard troops in Washington, D.C., last week, according to multiple outlets, closing borders to more countries following President Donald Trump’s vow to “permanently pause migration” from all “Third World Countries.”

Trump
A list of the impacted countries is expected to come soon.
AP Photo/Julia Demaree Nikhinson
Key Facts
The travel ban is expected to impact 30 countries, Bloomberg reported, though the final tally of countries with travel bans could reach up to 32, according to CNN, which cited an unnamed source familiar with the matter.

U.S. travel bans have already been instituted against 12 countries, while another seven countries have partial restrictions.

It is unclear what exact countries will be incorporated into the expanded travel ban, though the Trump administration is expected to release a list “soon,” according to Bloomberg.

Secretary of Homeland Security Kristi Noem said Monday in a social media post she was “recommending a full travel ban on every damn country that's been flooding our nation with killers, leeches, and entitlement junkies.”

The push for new travel bans comes as one of the shot National Guard members, Andrew Wolfe, remains in critical condition following the shooting, while the other soldier, Sarah Beckstrom, died from her wounds on Thursday.

Get Forbes Breaking News Text Alerts: We’re launching text message alerts so you'll always know the biggest stories shaping the day’s headlines. Text “Alerts” to (201) 335-0739 or sign up here.

symbol
00:03

03:12
Read More
What Travel Bans Are Currently Active?
Full travel bans were brought against Afghanistan, Myanmar, Chad, the Republic of the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Haiti, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen during the summer. The partial travel restrictions impact Burundi, Cuba, Laos, Sierra Leone, Togo, Turkmenistan and Venezuela.

Key Background
The travel ban instituted by the Trump administration over the summer was brought forth after Trump directed Cabinet members to identify countries with “deficient” vetting and screening information that warrants “a full or partial suspension on the admission of nationals from those countries.” Trump threatened a range of anti-immigration actions Thursday night following the D.C. shooting, which was allegedly carried out by Rahmanullah Lakanwal, an Afghan man who worked with CIA-backed units in Afghanistan and was granted asylum in April. Trump said he planned to remove any immigrant who is “not a net asset to the United States, or is incapable of loving our Country,” vowing to end federal benefits and subsidies for non-citizens. The president also threatened to remove foreign nationals “not-compatible with Western Civilization.”

