1

DHS chief Kristi Noem wants full travel ban on ‘every damn country’ she says sends ‘killer’ migrants to US
By Victor Nava
Published Dec. 1, 2025
Updated Dec. 2, 2025, 6:55 a.m. ET

1.8K
1/2

The video player is currently playing an ad.
Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem proposed a “full travel ban” Monday on unnamed countries “flooding” the US with dangerous migrants, after a meeting with President Trump.

“I just met with the President,” Noem wrote on X. “I am recommending a full travel ban on every damn country that’s been flooding our nation with killers, leeches, and entitlement junkies.

“Our forefathers built this nation on blood, sweat, and the unyielding love of freedom — not for foreign invaders to slaughter our heroes, suck dry our hard-earned tax dollars, or snatch the benefits owed to AMERICANS,” the DHS chief continued. “WE DON’T WANT THEM. NOT ONE.”

Kristi Noem
3
Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem said she was recommending a “full travel ban on every damn country.”
AP
A DHS spokesperson told The Post a list of nations affected by the proposed travel ban would be announced “soon.”

00:00

04:27
The recommendation is the latest step from the Trump administration to reduce the flow of foreign nationals into the US in the wake of last week’s Thanksgiving eve attack on two West Virginia National Guard members in Washington, DC. 

Explore More

Nick Reiner 'stormed off' after getting into tiff with comedian Bill Hader at Conan O'Brien's Christmas party

Inside Rob, Nick Reiner's fight at Conan O'Brien's Christmas party that left parents terrified before murders

Grim details reveal Rob Reiner, wife Michele were dead for hours
The administration had previously announced that it would halt all asylum decisions and re-examine more than 720,000 green card holders from 19 “countries of concern” after Rahmanullah Lakanwal, a 29-year-old Afghan national, allegedly gunned down Sarah Beckstrom, 20, and critically injured Andrew Wolfe, 24, near the White House. 

The aftermath of the deadly Washington DC shooting that left one National Guard members killed and another critically wounded.
3
The aftermath of the deadly Washington, DC, shooting that killed one National Guard member and left another critically wounded.
Anthony Rowland/CBS News
The State Department has also paused visa issuance for individuals traveling on Afghan passports in response to the horrific attack. 

Lakanwal, a former member of a CIA-backed Afghan military unit that fought the Taliban, entered the US legally in 2021 under the Biden administration’s Operation Allies Welcome program, which evacuated and resettled refugees after the botched US withdrawal from the Middle Eastern country. 

Evacuees crowd the interior of a U.S. Air Force C-17 Globemaster III transport aircraft, carrying some 640 Afghans to Qatar from Kabul, Afghanistan August 15, 2021.
3
Evacuees crowd the interior of a US Air Force C-17 Globemaster III transport aircraft, carrying some 640 Afghans to Qatar from Kabul, Afghanistan, August 15, 2021.
via REUTERS

1.8K
What do you think? Post a comment.

The alleged gunman was granted asylum in April, which made him eligible for a green card after 12 months.

“The suspect who shot our brave National Guardsmen is an Afghan national who was one of the many unvetted, mass paroled into the United States under Operation Allies Welcome on September 8, 2021, under the Biden Administration,” Noem said last week. 

“I will not utter this depraved individual’s name. He should be starved of the glory he so desperately wants.”