2

Kristi Noem Calls for New Blackout on Third World Immigration
By Ward Clark  | 9:08 AM on December 02, 2025The opinions expressed by contributors are their own and do not necessarily represent the views of RedState.com.
    

AP Photo/Evan Vucci
In the wake of the District of Columbia shooting, in which a West Virginia National Guard member was killed and another seriously injured by a poorly vetted immigrant from Afghanistan, the Trump administration has been looking hard at immigration and asylum practices.

On Monday, Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem called for an immediate halt to any and all travel from (mostly Third World) countries "flooding the United States" with immigrants.

Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem announced Monday that, following a meeting with President Donald Trump, she is recommending a sweeping travel ban on every country she claims is sending dangerous immigrants to the United States.

Noem made the announcement in a fiery post on X, denouncing certain immigrants as "killers" and "leeches."

"I just met with the President. I am recommending a full travel ban on every d--- country that's been flooding our nation with killers, leeches, and entitlement junkies," Noem said.

Now, it is as certain as the sunrise that there will be shouts of Islamophobia and racism. This announcement, after all, comes on the heels of a high-profile atrocity committed by a poorly vetted immigrant from a country that is overwhelmingly majority Muslim. That's enough to start the shouts of Islamophobia from the left, who never seem to recognize a threat to the United States, even when their faces are rubbed in it.

But there are hard facts in this matter, and one of those facts is that the United States of America has not only the right but the duty to decide who enters our country and who does not, and that decision must be based on what is best for the United States, not the rest of the world, nor even for the best interests of those seeking to enter our country.

Secretary Noem continues:

She slammed certain immigrants as threats to public safety and accused them of draining resources meant for Americans.

"Our forefathers built this nation on blood, sweat, and the unyielding love of freedom—not for foreign invaders to slaughter our heroes, suck dry our hard-earned tax dollars, or snatch the benefits owed to AMERICANS," she said.

"WE DON'T WANT THEM. NOT ONE."

Her language is on the... direct side, but the Secretary is correct in essence.

Read More: Karoline Leavitt Lays Out the Receipts of Joe Biden's Afghan Imports

New York State Thumbs Its Nose at Trump and ICE, Lets Loose Almost 7K Illegal Alien Criminals

There is such a thing as freedom of association, and with that comes the flip side, freedom of disassociation. Any nation, any people, has the right to decide who to admit to their country. In the United States, that decision is reflected in elections; we decide who our political officials will be, and part of that decision is based on issues like this.

The American people put President Trump in office in no small part because of his repeated insistence that serious immigration and asylum reform was needed, here, in the United States.

It remains to be seen how any such immigration moratorium will be implemented. In the end, Congress will have to act, and any major legislation cutting off Third World immigration will be uniformly opposed by Democrats. The president can act in the short term, but Donald Trump won't be president forever. Sooner or later, a Democrat will be back in the White House, and unless Congress acts, at that point, the floodgates will be thrown open, yet again.

Want another reason why the 2026 midterms are vitally important to the survival of our country? Here you are.

Editor’s Note: Thanks to President Trump, illegal immigration into our great country has virtually stopped. Despite the radical left's lies, new legislation wasn't needed to secure our border, just a new president.

Help us continue to report the truth about the president's border policies and mass deportations. Join RedState VIP and use promo code FIGHT to get 60% off your membership.