-1

US military kills 8 in latest attacks on vessels in eastern Pacific
Three latest attacks in the eastern Pacific Ocean come as the US increases military presence in Trinidad and Tobago, near Venezuela.

A US Air Force Boeing C-5 Galaxy is parked at José Aponte de la Torre Airport, formerly Roosevelt Roads Naval Station, on September 13, 2025 in Ceiba, Puerto Rico. President Donald Trump is sending ten F-35 fighter jets to Puerto Rico as part of his war on drug cartels, sources familiar with the matter told AFP on September 5, as tensions mount with Venezuela over Washington's military build-up in the Caribbean. The planes will join US warships already deployed to the southern Caribbean as Trump steps up pressure on Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro, whom the United States accuses of leading a drug cartel. The Trump administration recently carried out a drone strike in the southern Caribbean against a boat that had left Venezuela and was suspected of transporting drugs. Eleven people died in the attack. The president claimed that the vessel was operated by the Venezuelan gang Tren de Aragua. (Photo by Miguel J. Rodriguez Carrillo / AFP)
A US Air Force Boeing C-5 Galaxy is parked at José Aponte de la Torre airport, on September 13, 2025, in Ceiba, Puerto Rico [Miguel J Rodriguez Carrillo/AFP]

By Lyndal Rowlands and News Agencies

Published On 16 Dec 2025
16 Dec 2025
Click here to share on social media
Share

Save

The United States has said it killed eight people in new attacks on vessels in the eastern Pacific Ocean, days after the US military seized a Venezuelan oil tanker amid Washington’s continuing military buildup in Latin America.

In a post on social media, the US Military Southern Command (SOUTHCOM) said that “lethal kinetic strikes” targeted three vessels in international waters on Monday, at the direction of Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth.

Recommended Stories
list of 4 items
list 1 of 4JetBlue flight near Venezuela avoids ‘midair collision’ with US tanker
list 2 of 4History Illustrated: Venezuela and the US thirst for foreign oil
list 3 of 4Venezuela slams European Council’s renewed sanctions as ‘futile’
list 4 of 4Trump signs executive order labelling fentanyl ‘weapon of mass destruction’
end of list
Eight people were killed in total, SOUTHCOM said in a statement.

“Three in the first vessel, two in the second and three in the third,” it said, while claiming without providing any evidence that those killed were linked to drug trafficking.

At least 90 people have been killed in similar US attacks on dozens of vessels in the Pacific Ocean and Caribbean Sea near Venezuela since September, in what international law experts have criticised as extrajudicial killings by the US military.

US lawmakers have questioned Hegseth over his role in the attacks, including whether he personally ordered a second strike on a boat targeting two people who had survived a first attack and were left clinging to the debris in September.

The Pentagon has also deployed warships, a submarine, drones and fighter jets to the Caribbean and the Gulf of Mexico, in what it claims are efforts to tackle drug smuggling in the region.

Venezuela said the attacks and US military buildup were aimed at allowing “external powers to rob Venezuela’s immeasurable oil and gas wealth“, even before US forces seized an oil tanker off the coast of Venezuela last week, with US President Donald Trump telling reporters, “I assume we’re going to keep the oil.”


Play Video
25:00
Now Playing
25:00
Trump’s Venezuela Regime Change Campaign: ‘A Naked exercise of American imperialism | UpFront
Next
02:46
US military bombings in international waters face scrutiny over Venezuela
Show more videos

US military to use Trinidad airports, on Venezuela’s doorstep
The latest attacks on vessels in Latin American waters come as the US continues to build up its considerable military presence in the region surrounding Venezuela, with Trinidad and Tobago saying on Monday that it had authorised US military aircraft to use its airports.

Advertisement

AD
Trinidad and Tobago said it had given the green light for the US military to use its airports “in the coming weeks”, adding that Washington would use them for “logistical” operations, including “facilitating supply replenishment and routine personnel rotations”.

Get instant alerts and updates based on your interests. Be the first to know when big stories happen.
Yes, keep me updated
The Caribbean island nation, which is located only 12km (7.4 miles) from Venezuela at its closest point, has been supportive of the US military buildup in the region, in contrast to some other Central and South American leaders.

Trinidad and Tobago’s prime minister, Kamla Persad-Bissessar, has said she would rather see drug traffickers “blown to pieces” than have them kill citizens of her nation.

In response, Venezuelan leader Nicolas Maduro again said that his country would stop supplying gas to Trinidad and Tobago on Monday, according to the Venezuelan state television channel Telesur.

