0

US government launches campaign to hire engineers for AI, tech roles
By Courtney Rozen
December 15, 202512:17 PM ESTUpdated December 15, 2025



AI boom brings fresh risks to US markets, and more money to M&A
Figurines with computers and smartphones are seen in front of the words "Artificial Intelligence AI" in this illustration taken, February 19, 2024. REUTERS/Dado Ruvic/Illustration//File Photo Purchase Licensing Rights, opens new tab
Companies
Alphabet Inc

Apple Inc

NVIDIA Corp

Show more companies
WASHINGTON, Dec 15 (Reuters) - The U.S. government launched a campaign on Monday to hire 1,000 engineers for two-year federal positions, including those who have artificial intelligence expertise, according to a senior Trump administration official.
The engineers will tackle specific projects inside government agencies, including building a digital platform for the Trump administration's savings accounts for children, said Scott Kupor, the director of the U.S. Office of Personnel Management. The goal is to hire the first round of engineers by March 31, Kupor said.
Read about innovative ideas and the people working on solutions to global crises with the Reuters Beacon newsletter. Sign up here.
The government wants to "get the benefit of really smart people working on some of the world's most complex and difficult problems," he said.
The hiring initiative is part of the Trump administration's AI agenda, led in part by former PayPal executive David Sacks.
Private companies have pledged to consider the program's alumni for positions, Kupor said. The list of companies includes Apple, Google and Nvidia, among others, according to the program's website. The Trump administration is looking to hire employees with expertise in software engineering, AI, cybersecurity and data analytics, according to the website.
Former President Joe Biden set up a similar initiative to bring AI professionals into government jobs. That effort resulted in about 200 hires, according to a 2024 statement from the Biden administration. About 75 of those employees remain in government roles, Kupor said.
Reporting by Courtney Rozen; Editing by Franklin Paul and Paul Simao

