0

Trump admin to hire 1,000 specialists for ‘Tech Force’ to build AI, finance projects
Published Mon, Dec 15 202511:34 AM ESTUpdated Mon, Dec 15 202511:40 AM EST
thumbnail
Kevin Breuninger
@KevinWilliamB
WATCH LIVE
Key Points
The Trump administration unveiled a new initiative dubbed the “U.S. Tech Force” that will work on AI infrastructure and other technology projects.
The corps of about 1,000 engineers and other specialists will report directly to agency leaders in collaboration with top technology companies such as Amazon Web Services, Apple and Microsoft.
OPM Director Scott Kupor on the launch of U.S. tech force programwatch now
VIDEO04:50
OPM Director Scott Kupor on the launch of U.S. tech force program
The Trump administration on Monday unveiled a new initiative dubbed the “U.S. Tech Force,” comprising about 1,000 engineers and other specialists who will work on artificial intelligence infrastructure and other technology projects throughout the federal government.

Participants will commit to a two-year employment program working with teams that report directly to agency leaders in “collaboration with leading technology companies,” according to an official government website.

Those “private sector partners” include Amazon Web Services
, Apple
, Google
 Public Sector, Dell Technologies
, Microsoft
, Nvidia
, OpenAI, Oracle
, Palantir
, Salesforce
 and numerous others, the website says.

The Tech Force shows the Trump administration increasing its focus on developing America’s AI infrastructure as it competes with China for dominance in the rapidly growing industry.

The initiative was announced four days after President Donald Trump signed an executive order aimed at establishing a national AI policy framework — a priority for industry leaders who opposed states crafting their own regulations.

Once Tech Force members complete their two terms, they can seek full-time jobs with those companies, who have committed to consider the programs’ alumni for employment. The private partners can also nominate their employees to do stints of government service.

