2


US
Trump Admin Rolls Out Elite US ‘Tech Force’ To Overhaul Federal Bureaucracy
President Trump Delivers Remarks At AI Summit In Washington DC
(Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)

Daily Caller News Foundation logo




Melissa O'Rourke
Reporter
December 15, 2025
11:03 AM ET
Font Size:


The Trump administration is launching a new “Tech Force,” a government-wide initiative designed to accelerate artificial intelligence (AI) adoption in the government and secure American technological dominance, the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) announced Monday.

The Tech Force will recruit top engineers, data scientists, and technologists from leading technology companies to work across agencies on AI projects within the federal government, according to the OPM. By embedding AI experts directly into federal agencies, the administration seeks to modernize government infrastructure, improve services, and recruit top early-career talent, according to OPM.

“This is a clarion call,” OPM Director Scott Kupor said in a statement. “If you want to help your country lead in the age of AI, we need you.”

“The US Tech Force offers the chance to build and lead projects of national importance, while creating powerful career opportunities in both public service and the private sector,” Kupor added. (RELATED: Betrayed American Workers Expose Dark Underbelly Of H-1B Visa Scheme)

President Donald Trump thanks tech billionaire Michael Dell in the Roosevelt Room at the White House on December 02, 2025 in Washington, DC.
WASHINGTON, DC – DECEMBER 02: U.S. President Donald Trump thanks tech billionaire Michael Dell while making an announcement about “Trump accounts” in the Roosevelt Room at the White House on December 02, 2025 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)

OPM plans to recruit a cohort of 1,000 early-career candidates with technical expertise for a two-year program, matching participants with positions across federal agencies, primarily focused on modernization, Kupor told reporters Monday. Participants will receive training from private-sector partners and work on “mission-critical” projects, with the opportunity to transition into permanent positions within both the federal government and the private sector after the program concludes.

The Tech Force will partner with around 25 leading technology companies, including Amazon Web Services, Adobe, Dell Technologies, IBM, Meta, Microsoft, Nvidia, Oracle, Palantir and xAI, with plans to expand the list over time, according to OPM.

“It is a call to service for our nation’s best technologists to join a mission-critical corps that will ensure our competitiveness, modernize our government infrastructure and lead the world in innovation from education to medicine,” U.S. Federal CIO Gregory Barbaccia said in a statement.

The initiative is designed not only to address a talent gap in highly-coveted technical skills but also to replenish the federal workforce as retirements surge over the next decade, according to Kupor.

“Our goal here is not to ask people to commit to a 40-year career in the federal government,” Kupor said, but to show that there are opportunities for long-term tech careers tackling complex problems in the federal government.

Applications for the U.S. Tech Force are now open at TechForce.gov, with the agency aiming to complete hiring by the end of the first quarter of 2026.

The move is part of President Donald Trump’s broader AI strategy outlined in the AI Action Plan launched in July. Since then, the president has taken steps to further the strategy, including a Thursday executive order to create federal rules and approvals for AI to challenge state-level regulations.

However, some state leaders, including Republican Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, have pushed back, saying “executive order doesn’t/can’t preempt state legislative action.”

The administration has also approved U.S. chip maker Nvidia to export some of its advanced AI chips, including its H200s, to China under a deal that allows the government to take a portion of the profits. Nvidia says the exports will help establish American AI technology as a global standard, though critics warn the move could undermine long-term national security.

