-2

Trump issues ominous warning NYT committed 'treasonous' acts for reporting on his health
Robert Davis
December 9, 2025 9:37PM ET




BeLoud Share
Trump issues ominous warning NYT committed 'treasonous' acts for reporting on his health
President Donald Trump speaks during a cabinet meeting at the White House in Washington, D.C. on Dec. 2, 2025. REUTERS/Brian Snyder

President Donald Trump attacked The New York Times in a new Truth Social post on Tuesday night, suggesting the paper's reporting on his health may be "seditious" and that reporters for the outlet may have committed treason.

Trump issued the screed after he delivered a speech in Monroe County, Pennsylvania, that was supposed to focus on affordability, but meandered through old talking points about immigration and the wonderful job his cabinet secretaries are doing.

In the post, Trump claimed he is the hardest-working president in history and that his "results are among the best."

ALSO READ: 'Massive corruption': Supreme Court set to boost Trump in case bigger than Dobbs — experts

"Despite all of this, the time and work involved, The New York Times, and some others, like to pretend that I am 'slowing up,' am maybe not as sharp as I once was, or am in poor physical health, knowing that it is not true, and knowing that I work very hard, probably harder than I have ever worked before," Trump wrote in the post. "I will know when I am 'slowing up,' but it’s not now!"

"After all of the work I have done with Medical Exams, Cognitive Exams, and everything else, I actually believe it’s seditious, perhaps even treasonous, for The New York Times, and others, to consistently do FAKE reports in order to libel and demean 'THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,'" he added. "They are true Enemies of the People, and we should do something about it. They have inaccurately reported on all of my Election Results and, in fact, were forced to apologize on much of what they wrote."

"The best thing that could happen to this Country would be if The New York Times would cease publication because they are a horrible, biased, and untruthful 'source' of information," he continued.

Trump's health has been called into question recently after the president admitted to taking a cognitive test and getting an MRI. Some psychological experts suggested that Trump may be experiencing early signs of dementia.

Other medical experts have pointed to the bandage on his hand and the swelling of his ankles as evidence of his physical decline.

