0

Trump rips NY Times over ‘seditious’ reporting about his health
by Tara Suter - 12/10/25 10:43 AM ET






Unmute
Current Time 
0:04
/
Duration 
1:12

Captions


Fullscreen

Play

Share


President Trump went after The New York Times late Tuesday over “seditious” reporting about his health.

“The New York Times, and some others, like to pretend that I am ‘slowing up,’ am maybe not as sharp as I once was, or am in poor physical health, knowing that it is not true, and knowing that I work very hard, probably harder than I have ever worked before,” Trump wrote in a lengthy Truth Social post.

“I will know when I am ‘slowing up,’ but it’s not now! After all of the work I have done with Medical Exams, Cognitive Exams, and everything else, I actually believe it’s seditious, perhaps even treasonous, for The New York Times, and others, to consistently do FAKE reports in order to libel and demean ‘THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,’” he added.

The Times published an opinion piece titled “Trump’s Approval Ratings Have Declined. So Has His Vigor” on Monday in which writer Frank Bruni said people “might want to brace ourselves for some presidential déjà vu.”

“He’s starting to give President Joe Biden vibes,” Bruni said of Trump in his piece for the Times.

In late November, the Times also published a report analyzing Trump’s schedule, finding he had held fewer public events and conducted less domestic travel in comparison to the same point of his first term. According to the report, Trump also seemed to fall asleep amid an event in the Oval Office.

A Times spokesperson, Nicole Taylor, said in a statement posted to the social platform X on Wednesday that “Americans deserve in-depth reporting and regular updates about the health of the leaders they elect.”

Sign up for the Morning Report
The latest in politics and policy. Direct to your inbox.

Email address
By signing up, I agree to the Terms of Use, have reviewed the Privacy Policy, and to receive personalized offers and communications via email, on-site notifications, and targeted advertising using my email address from The Hill, Nexstar Media Inc., and its affiliates

“Mr. Trump welcomed our reporting on the age and fitness of his predecessors; we’re applying the same journalistic scrutiny to his vitality,” Taylor added. “Our reporting is heavily sourced, based on interviews with people close to the president and with medical experts. We won’t be deterred by false and inflammatory language that distorts the role of a free press.”