1

Trump says New York Times questioning his stamina could be ‘treasonous’
By David Zimmermann
December 9, 2025 11:47 pm
Add Washington Examiner on Google

President Donald Trump suggested on Tuesday he may take action against the “treasonous” New York Times for publishing a negative report on his health.

“The New York Times, and some others, like to pretend that I am ‘slowing up,’ am maybe not as sharp as I once was, or am in poor physical health, knowing that it is not true, and knowing that I work very hard, probably harder than I have ever worked before,” Trump said in a lengthy message on Truth Social. “I will know when I am ‘slowing up,’ but it’s not now!”

Recommended Stories
WATCH LIVE: Trump participates in roundtable
Musk says he wouldn’t do DOGE again if given the chance
Trump plays kingmaker with 2028 field as lame-duck era looms
“After all of the work I have done with Medical Exams, Cognitive Exams, and everything else, I actually believe it’s seditious, perhaps even treasonous, for The New York Times, and others, to consistently do FAKE reports in order to libel and demean ‘THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,'” he added. “They are true Enemies of the People, and we should do something about it.”

President Donald Trump speaks with reporters
President Donald Trump speaks with reporters while in flight on Air Force One from Joint Base Andrews to Avoca, Pennsylvania, Tuesday, Dec. 9, 2025. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon)
The New York Times recently pointed to Trump’s diminished schedule and old age as proof that he’s losing stamina and energy during his second term. The 79-year-old president is the oldest person ever elected to the White House.

The media scrutiny came after Trump’s follow-up examination in October, which was preceded by his annual physical six months earlier. The tests, both conducted at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, showed him in “excellent overall health.”

Still, his health has been called into question after taking a cognitive test and getting an MRI scan of his cardiovascular system. The White House physician has said the MRI results were “perfectly normal,” showing no evidence of arterial narrowing, abnormalities, inflammation, or clotting.

In his social media post, Trump revealed he “aced” a third cognitive exam he recently took.

“I ACED all three of them in front of large numbers of doctors and experts, most of whom I do not know,” he said. “I have been told that few people have been able to ‘ace’ this Examination and, in fact, most do very poorly, which is why many other Presidents have decided not to take it at all.”

In his latest attack on the New York Times, Trump argued he is the busiest president while touting his administration’s wins. He even suggested the publication would not be missed if it no longer existed.

“The best thing that could happen to this Country would be if The New York Times would cease publication because they are a horrible, biased, and untruthful ‘source’ of information,” he wrote.

TRUMP RIPS BIDEN AND DEMOCRATS OVER AFFORDABILITY IN PENNSYLVANIA: ‘LIKE BONNIE AND CLYDE PREACHING PUBLIC SAFETY’

In response to the president’s tirade, the newspaper stood by its reporting.

“Americans deserve in-depth reporting and regular updates about the health of the leaders they elect. Mr. Trump welcomed our reporting on the age and fitness of his predecessors; we’re applying the same journalistic scrutiny to his vitality,” a spokesperson for the New York Times told the Washington Examiner. “Our reporting is heavily sourced, based on interviews with people close to the president and with medical experts. We won’t be deterred by false and inflammatory language that distorts the role of a free press.”