-1

D.C. Dispatch: Iowa representatives tout their votes for extensive budget bill
By:
Tom Foley
-
May 23, 2025
5:30 pm

 The U.S. Capitol on Sept. 23, 2024. (Photo by Jennifer Shutt/States Newsroom)

Members of Iowa’s U.S. House delegation, who voted this week in favor of President Donald Trump’s “big, beautiful bill,” have been defending and promoting their decision amid criticism over cuts to health care and food assistance for low-income Americans.

Trump’s bill promises multitrillion-dollar tax cuts while simultaneously rolling back programs such as Medicaid and the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program. The Congressional Budget Office also estimates this bill could add an additional $3.8 trillion to the national debt. 

Democrats and advocates held a news conference Thursday urging Sens. Chuck Grassley and Joni Ernst to vote against the bill.

Rep. Mariannette Miller-Meeks has received criticism for her vote. Derek Eadon, former Iowa Democratic Party Chair, said in a press release it threatens clean energy jobs in Iowa’s 1st District by repealing the clean energy credits of 2022, despite past commitment to protect these tax credits. Miller-Meeks is currently a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee which helped to identify budget cuts in the programs it oversees, including Medicare and Medicaid. 

GET THE MORNING HEADLINES.

SUBSCRIBE
Miller-Meeks posted in a statement: “This bill protects Iowa families, seniors, and small businesses while strengthening Medicaid for the vulnerable—not for those who can work and choose not to.” Miller-Meeks said. “Today’s vote is a win for Iowa and for every American who believes in work, responsibility, and a government that serves its people, not the other way around.”

Rep. Ashley Hinson also voted for the bill, saying on X: “Iowans overwhelmingly voted for President Trump’s America First agenda — ending illegal immigration and preventing dangerous criminals and drugs from entering our communities, cutting wasteful spending, and unleashing American energy.”

Reps. Zach Nunn and Randy Feenstra, members of the Agriculture committee, played a role in identifying $230 billion in cuts, which included major cuts to the food program SNAP. 

“The bill also safeguards key benefit programs for vulnerable Iowans while eliminating waste, fraud, and abuse,” Nunn said in a statement. “It bolsters border security, restores accountability, and invests in American energy dominance—where Iowa is already leading the charge.”

Feenstra stated: “Thanks to President Trump’s leadership, our families will see big tax cuts, Iowa workers will have higher wages, our farmers will see relief from the death tax, and our small businesses and local manufacturers will grow and thrive.”

Grassley, Klobuchar introduce bipartisan resolution for return of Ukrainian children
Grassley and Democrat Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota introduced a bipartisan resolution calling for the return of all abducted Ukrainian children before Russia-Ukraine peace agreements are finalized. Ernst was also a co-sponsor of this bill.

“[Putin] has kidnapped thousands of children to brainwash and Russify them in an attempt to destroy their cultural identity and heritage,” Grassley said, “The United States ought to demand these children are returned before inking a deal to end the war in Ukraine.”

Trump said he believed his phone call Monday with Russian President Vladimir Putin went “very well.” Following the call, he dropped his demands for an immediate ceasefire. The Kremlin has yet to provide a timeframe for ceasefire negotiations. 

This resolution, while non-binding, condemns Russia’s “abduction and forcible transfer of Ukrainian children,” a prominent war crime allegation against Russia. Its introduction follows a letter sent in April by 40 prominent religious leaders to Trump and Secretary of state Marco Rubio calling for Russia to return an estimated 20,000 children forcibly transferred to Russian territory.

Grassley and Wisconsin Sen. Tammy Baldwin, a Democrat, also introduced the bipartisan Protecting Older Workers from Age Discrimination Act, which seeks to “level the playing field for Older Workers,” according to a news release. This bill would recognize the legitimacy of “mixed-motive” claims and reaffirm the workers’ ability to use any type of admissible evidence to prove their claims. 

Miller-Meeks’ veteran suicide prevention bill passes through House
The No Wrong Door for Veterans Act, introduced by Miller-Meeks, passed through the House this week. This bill seeks to strengthen the Staff Sergeant Parker Gordon Fox Suicide Prevention grant program by requiring local Veterans Affairs coordination and clearer eligibility standards, expanding access to emergency care, and holding grantees accountable. 

“The No Wrong Door for Veterans Act ensures that our heroes are never turned away or left without help. It streamlines access, strengthens coordination, and reaffirms our promise to those who served. I’m proud to lead this bipartisan effort—and to say to every veteran: we see you, we hear you, and we will fight for you,” Miller-Meeks said in a statement.

Additionally, this bill included the Supporting Prosthetics and Recreational Therapy act. The SPORT act ensures that artificial limbs must be furnished to eligible veterans as medical services, which include prostheses and terminal devices for sports and recreational activities.

Hinson named co-chair of biofuels caucus
Hinson was announced Thursday as a co-chair for the Congressional Biofuels Caucus, alongside five other representatives. Hinson said she plans to use the position as a means of expanding access to Iowa biofuels, increasing blending targets and securing permission to allow the sale of E15 year-round.

Currently, E15, a fuel blend consisting of 15% ethanol and 85% gasoline, for the most part is not sold during summer months because it has a higher fuel volatility than allowed under the Clean Air Act. 

Hinson said in a news release she wishes to increase domestic energy production stating “biofuels are key to Iowa’s economy and key to American energy dominance.”

Nunn, Himes introduce FORCE act to “modernize” Defense Production Act
Nunn and Democrat Jim Himes of Connecticut’s 4th District introduced the Federal Overhaul of Reserve Command Executive Modernization Act. The Defense Production Act, enacted in 1950, grants the president power to expand and expedite the supply of materials and services from the domestic industrial base. 

The FORCE act seeks to reintroduce the National Defense Executive Reserve, which would bring private-sector industry leaders and trained civilian experts into a corps for guidance during national emergencies. This bill would also allow federal agencies to partner with private industry more efficiently. The National Defense Executive Reserve was first established in 1956 by President Dwight D. Eisenhower through an executive order. 

“In today’s threat environment, America can’t afford a playbook from the 1950’s,” Nunn said. “Let’s leverage America’s best and brightest in the private and public sectors.”