3

House Passes ‘Big, Beautiful Bill’ With Tax Cuts & Pro-Family Policies
by Zachary Mettler | May 22, 2025 | Government Updates

The U.S. House of Representatives on Thursday morning passed an important budget bill which provides tax relief for American families and contains several crucial, pro-family policies.

The One Big Beautiful Bill Act (H.R. 1) passed the House in a 215-214 vote after weeks of negotiations and deliberations and now goes to the Senate for consideration. Two Republican congressmen united with all House Democrats in opposition to the bill. One Republican member voted “present.”

Speaker of the House Mike Johnson issued a statement after the vote, touting the bill as “generational, nation-shaping legislation” that reduces spending, permanently lowers taxes for families and job creators, secures the border, unleashes American energy dominance and restores peace through strength.

“We look forward to the Senate’s timely consideration of this once-in-a-generation legislation and stand ready to continue our work together to deliver The One Big Beautiful Bill to the President’s desk,” he added.

WASHINGTON, DC – MAY 22: U.S. Speaker of the House Mike Johnson (R-LA) speaks to the media after the House narrowly passed a bill forwarding President Donald Trump’s agenda at the U.S. Capitol on May 22, 2025 in Washington, DC. Johnson was flanked by House Committee Chairmen who helped craft the legislation. (Photo by Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images)
WASHINGTON, DC – MAY 22: U.S. Speaker of the House Mike Johnson (R-LA) speaks to the media after the House narrowly passed a bill forwarding President Donald Trump’s agenda at the U.S. Capitol on May 22, 2025 in Washington, DC. Johnson was flanked by House Committee Chairmen who helped craft the legislation. (Photo by Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images)
Here’s a roundup of some of the most important provisions in H.R. 1.

Taxes

The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), which substantially reduced taxes for most American families, is set to expire at the end of 2025. H.R. 1 not only averts this $4 trillion tax hike by extending the TCJA but further reduces taxes. The bill:

Increases the standard deduction under the TCJA by an additional $1,000 for individuals (from $15,000 to $16,000) and $2,000 for married couples.
Expands the Child Tax Credit (CTC) by an additional $500 per child (from $2,000 under the TCJA to $2,500).
Eliminates taxes on tips and overtime pay.
Cuts taxes on seniors’ social security benefits.
Protects family farmers by preventing the “death tax” from hitting two million family-owned farms which would otherwise see their exemptions cut in half; also cuts taxes on farmers by $10 billion.
Increases the state and local tax (SALT) deduction cap, from $10,000 to roughly $40,000, for those making less than $500,000 per year.
Establishes savings accounts for newborns.
Increases access to the Adoption Tax Credit (ATC) by making the ATC partially refundable up to $5,000.
According to the White House, H.R. 1 will improve on existing TCJA tax cuts and avoid the dramatic increase in American families’ tax bills if the TCJA is allowed to expire. A typical family with two children will see between $7,800 to $13,000 higher take-home pay.

Americans earning between $30,000 and $80,000 per year will see their taxes cut by an estimated 15% next year if the bill becomes law, the White House notes.

The bill is expected to add roughly $2.3 trillion to the federal deficit over 10 years, according to the Congressional Budget Office. It also raises the debt ceiling by $4 trillion.

Abortion

Crucially, the bill cuts off hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars from flowing to Big Abortion entities like Planned Parenthood.

The legislation stipulates that no Medicaid dollars will be provided to any “prohibited entity” for a period of 10 years, which it defines as any 501(c)(3) organization that “is primarily engaged in family planning services, reproductive health, and related medical care,” “provides for abortions” and exceeded $1 million in Medicaid dollars in 2024.

This provision is a massive win for pro-life supporters and will likely save thousands of preborn babies’ lives. Last year, Planned Parenthood killed over 400,000 preborn children; it earned over $200 million in profit over the last two years.

Planned Parenthood received $792.2 million in taxpayer money last year through government grants, contracts and Medicaid reimbursements. While the Hyde amendment prohibits taxpayer money from directly funding abortion, any funding of Planned Parenthood nonetheless increases the organization’s revenue and enables the abortion giant to expand and perform more abortions.

Transgenderism

H.R. 1 ends taxpayer funding for transgender medical interventions by prohibiting federal Medicaid, Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and Affordable Care Act funding for “gender transition” procedures.

Originally the provisions only applied to individuals under the age of 18. But after further negotiations with House conservatives, who argued H.R. 1 didn’t go far enough in enacting a comprehensive conservative agenda, new provisions were added, including a ban on federal funding for transgender medical interventions for adults.

Immigration

The legislation also continues President Trump’s crackdown on illegal immigration. The bill:

Contains $150 billion for increased border security.
Funds at least one million illegal immigrant deportations annually.
Funds thousands of miles of additional border wall and barriers.
Provides money for hiring over 18,000 new immigration officials.
Provides pay raises for ICE and Border Patrol agents.
Ends taxpayer-funded Medicaid benefits for at least 1.4 million illegal immigrants.
House conservatives also pushed for, and attained, an amendment to H.R. 1 providing $12 billion to reimburse states that spent money countering former President Joe Biden’s open border policies.

H.R. 1 now goes to the Senate for consideration, which is expected to make changes to the bill, before heading back to the House for final approval.

Republicans are utilizing the budget reconciliation process to advance the legislation, which allows for expedited consideration of certain tax, spending, and debt limit proposals. This means that only a bare majority of senators – 51 out of 100 – will need to back the legislation for it to pass the Senate, rather than the usual 60.

The Daily Citizen will keep you apprised of developments as the bill progresses. Republican leaders are hoping to have the bill on the president’s desk for signature by July 4.

If you are experiencing an unexpected pregnancy and want to learn more about your options, you can visit My Choice Network here.

