-1

EU has gone to ‘unprecedented lengths’ to win over Mercosur skeptics
Getting the Latin America trade deal done is a crucial test of the EU’s credibility, Maroš Šefčovič tells POLITICO.


Listen
Copy Link
Free article usually reserved for subscribers
Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Commissioner for Trade meet in Rome
“I hope we will pass the test this week because we really went to unprecedented lengths to address the concerns which have been presented to us,” Maroš Šefčovič said in an interview on Monday. | Vincenzo Livieri/EPA
December 15, 2025 11:47 am CET
By Camille Gijs and Antonia Zimmermann
BRUSSELS — The European Commission has done everything in its power to accommodate the concerns of member countries over the EU’s trade deal with the Latin American Mercosur bloc and get it over the finish line, Trade Commissioner Maroš Šefčovič told POLITICO.

“I hope we will pass the test this week because we really went to unprecedented lengths to address the concerns which have been presented to us,” Šefčovič said in an interview on Monday. 

“Now it’s a matter of credibility, and it’s a matter of being strategic,” he stressed, explaining that the huge trade deal is vital for the European Union at a time of increasingly assertive behavior by China and the United States.

“Mercosur very much reflects our ambition to play a strategic role in trade, to confirm that we are the biggest trader on this planet.”

The commissioner’s remarks come as time is running short to hold a vote among member countries that would allow Commission President Ursula von der Leyen to fly to Brazil on Dec. 20 for a signing ceremony with the Mercosur countries — Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay.

“The last miles are always the most difficult,” Šefčovič added. “But I really hope that we can do it this week because I understand the anxiety on the side of our Latin American partners.” 

The vote in the Council of the EU, the bloc’s intergovernmental branch, has still to be scheduled.

To pass, it would need to win the support of a qualified majority of 15 member countries representing 65 percent of the bloc’s population. It’s not clear whether France — the EU country most strongly opposed to the deal — can muster a blocking minority.

If Paris loses, it would be the first time the EU has concluded a big trade deal against the wishes of a major founding member.

France, on Sunday evening, called for the vote to be postponed, widening a rift within the bloc over the controversial pact that has been under negotiation for more than 25 years.

Several pro-deal countries warn that the holdup risks killing the trade deal, concerned that further stalling it could embolden opposition in the European Parliament or complicate next steps when Paraguay, which is skeptical toward the agreement, takes over the presidency of the Mercosur bloc from current holder Brazil.

Asked whether Brussels had a Plan B if the vote does not take place on time, Šefčovič declined to speculate. He instead put the focus on a separate vote on Tuesday in the European Parliament on additional farm market safeguards proposed by the Commission to address French concerns.

“There are still expectations on how much we can advance with some of the measures which are not yet approved, particularly in the European Parliament,” he stressed. 

“If you look at the safeguard regulation, we never did anything like this before. It’s the first [time] ever. It’s, I would say, very, very far reaching.” 