1

South America is simply shaking its head at Europe.
The free trade agreement is foreseeably the EU's last chance to establish a geopolitical position of strength. But Brussels is displaying blatant leadership weakness. A commentary.
Alexander Busch
December 16, 2025 - 10:45 AM


Listen to the article






EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and Brazilian President Lula. In South America, people have been closely watching how Brussels caved in to Donald Trump.Photo: dpa
Should the EU fail to reach an agreement between its members this week, the EU-Mercosur negotiations would have collapsed. Diplomats from the Mercosur countries (Argentina, Brazil , Uruguay, and Paraguay) have so far assumed that the agreement will be signed on December 20 at the South American Economic Community summit in Brazil. However, this is now completely uncertain.

France and Poland have once again spoken out against the agreement. France, in particular, refuses to accept the agreement in its current form and is demanding additional guarantees for its farmers. Italy, Austria, and Belgium are also considered likely to reject it.

In South America, there is growing resentment and incomprehension regarding the European hesitation at the last minute. People are simply shaking their heads at the Europeans.

From a South American perspective, Mercosur has already made numerous concessions to the Europeans in recent months. For example, the favorable special tariffs on South American agricultural products can be stopped immediately if imports in a sector increase by more than five percent.

If the Europeans were to include further safeguard clauses now without consulting Mercosur, the South Americans would rightly feel duped.

The EU is increasingly seen as weak in South America.
In South America, there has been close attention to how Brussels caved to Donald Trump and made major concessions out of fear of punitive tariffs. For example, US farmers gained easier access to the EU single market. However, the EU-Mercosur agreement currently only offers South Americans small quotas for beef.

In South America, European hesitancy is therefore rightly interpreted as a sign of weak political leadership on the part of the EU. If the Europeans cannot find a common approach towards key partner countries, even now in the face of Trump's aggressive trade policies, they will discredit themselves.

Furthermore, the Eurocentric attitude of the Europeans and their constantly shifting sensitivities are irritating. Even in Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay, and Paraguay, the governments have to overcome internal resistance to reach a consensus on an agreement with the Europeans. There are also organized lobbies in South America opposing the agreement.

An EU-Mercosur agreement has long ceased to be a top priority for the South Americans, as a divided and economically weak Europe is no longer as attractive. Mercosur has been seeking new partners for agreements in Asia for some time. The US has also taken the lead and offered Argentina a free trade agreement. Therefore, the Mercosur agreement represents the EU's foreseeable last chance to establish a geopolitical position of strength.

