-1

Brit found guilty of conspiracy under China law - as top minister slams verdict
Jimmy Lai, 78, has been found guilty by a Hong Kong court of conspiracy and sedition charges under the territory's Beijing-imposed national security law
Comments
0
News
Sophie Huskisson Political Correspondent
08:14, 15 Dec 2025
Updated 08:28, 15 Dec 2025

The Government has condemned the 'politically motivated prosecution' of Hong Kong media tycoon Jimmy Lai
View 2 Images
The Government has condemned the 'politically motivated prosecution' of Hong Kong media tycoon Jimmy Lai(Image: AFP via Getty Images)
A British national has been found guilty by a Hong Kong court of conspiracy and sedition charges under the territory's China-imposed national security law.

Article continues below
The Government condemned the "politically motivated prosecution" of Hong Kong media tycoon Jimmy Lai, 78.

Mr Lai, a pro-democracy activist who founded the now-defunct Hong Kong newspaper Apple Daily, has been a persistent critic of the Chinese government.

Article continues below
He was arrested in 2020 under the national security law, which was imposed by China after anti-government protests the previous year.

Mr Lai, who has spent much of the time since in solitary confinement, pleaded not guilty to all the charges brought against him.

READ MORE: Safe housing pledge for domestic abuse survivors amid 'national emergency' warning

Foreign Secretary Yvette Cooper criticised the verdict by the Hong Kong court
View 2 Images
Foreign Secretary Yvette Cooper criticised the verdict by the Hong Kong court(Image: PA)
Our daily newsletter sends you the latest headlines from the Mirror
Enter your Email...
Subscribe
We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info

Foreign Secretary Yvette Cooper criticised the verdict by the Hong Kong court. She said: "The UK condemns the politically motivated prosecution of Jimmy Lai that has resulted in today's guilty verdict.

"Jimmy Lai has been targeted by the Chinese and Hong Kong governments for peacefully exercising his right to freedom of expression.

"Beijing's national security law was imposed on Hong Kong to silence China's critics.

Article continues below
"The UK has repeatedly called for the national security law to be repealed and for an end to the prosecution of all individuals charged under it.

"We continue to call for Mr Lai's immediate release, for all necessary treatment and for full access to independent medical professionals."

Be the first with news from Mirror Politics
BLUESKY: Follow our Mirror Politics account on Bluesky here. And follow our Mirror Politics team here - Lizzy Buchan, Mikey Smith, Ashley Cowburn, Alexander Brown, Sophie Huskisson and Dave Burke.

POLITICS WHATSAPP: Be first to get the biggest bombshells and breaking news by joining our Politics WhatsApp group here. We also treat our community members to special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you want to leave our community, you can check out any time you like. If you’re curious, you can read our Privacy Notice.

NEWSLETTER: Or sign up here to the Mirror's Politics newsletter for all the best exclusives and opinions straight to your inbox.

PARTY GAMES: Watch our new YouTube series 'Party Games' where we play games with MPs, hosted by the Mirror's Sophie Huskisson

Article continues below
Dame Priti Patel, shadow foreign secretary, described Mr Lai's case as a "political show trial" which was "an outrage to democracy, personal freedom and liberty". She added: "His degrading treatment and imprisonment at the hands of the Chinese Communist Party's authoritarian regime has been appalling."

Dame Priti urged Keir Starmer to "directly raise Jimmy's case with President Xi (Jinping) and demand Jimmy's immediate release from custody so his ordeal can end, he can be returned to Britain and be reunited with his family".

She added: "The imposition of the national security law on Hong Kong is in violation of the freedoms that should have been guaranteed under the Sino-British Joint Declaration, and the British Government has not done enough to oppose the suppression of freedom and human rights in Hong Kong